# REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE GOVERNMENT

Delivered at the Fifth Session of the 13th National People’s Congress of
the People’s Republic of China on March 5, 2022

### Li Keqiang
##### Premier of the State Council

Fellow Deputies,

on behalf of the State Council, I will now report to you on the work of the
government and ask for your deliberation and approval. I also ask members of the
National Committee of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference
(CPPCC) for their comments.

#### I. A Review of Our Work in 2021

Last year was a milestone in the history of the Communist Party of China (CPC)
and our country. The CPC Central Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping at its core
united and led the whole Party and Chinese people of all ethnic groups in
accomplishing the follow ing endeavors:  

* We celebrated the centenary of the Communist Party of China;  
* The 19 th CPC Central Committee convened its sixth plenary session where
a resolution on the Party’s major achievements and historical experience
over the past century was adopted  
* We declared victory in the critical battle against poverty as envisaged; and  
* We achieved the first centenary goal of building a moderately prosperous
society in all respects on schedule and began a new journey toward the
second centenary goal of building a modern socialist country in all
respects.  

Last year, facing complicated and challenging circumstances both in and
outside of China, as well as many risks and challenges, all of us throughout the
country worked hard as one. We responded to Covid 19 and pursued economic and social development in a well and social development in a well--coordinated way, accomplished the main targets coordinated way, accomplished the main targets and tasks for the year, got the 14th Five-Year Plan off to a good start, and once again secured new and major achievements in our country’’s development

** —The economy continued to recover and grow. ** 
conomy continued to recover and grow. ChinaChina’’s gross domestic product s gross domestic product (GDP) reached 114 trillion yuan, growing 8.1 percent. National fiscal revenue (GDP) reached 114 trillion yuan, growing 8.1 percent. National fiscal revenue exceeded 20 trillion yuan, growing 10.7 percent. A total of 12.69 million urban jobs exceeded 20 trillion yuan, growing 10.7 percent. A total of 12.69 million urban jobs were added, and the average surveyed were added, and the average surveyed unemployment rate unemployment rate stood atstood at 5.5.11 percent.percent. The consumer price index (CPI) rose by The consumer price index (CPI) rose by 00.9.9 percent. A percent. A basic basic equilibriumequilibrium was was maintained in the balance of payments.maintained in the balance of payments.
—
—ChinaChina’’s innovation capacity was s innovation capacity was strstrenengthengthened. ed. Our Our strategic science and strategic science and technology capabilitiestechnology capabilities were expanded at a faster pace. were expanded at a faster pace. MMajajor advances were or advances were registered in research on core technologies in key fields, and breakthroughs were registered in research on core technologies in key fields, and breakthroughs were made in made in manned spaceflightmanned spaceflight, Mars exploration, resource exploration, energy , Mars exploration, resource exploration, energy projects and other areas. Corporate spending on research and development grew projects and other areas. Corporate spending on research and development grew by 1by 15.5 percent. Integration of digital technology in the real economy was 5.5 percent. Integration of digital technology in the real economy was accelerated.accelerated.
—
—The economic structure and regionThe economic structure and regional al development priorities development priorities werwere e refinedrefined.. GGrain rain output reached a record high of 685 output reached a record high of 685 million metric tonsmillion metric tons. Value. Value--added of the added of the hhighigh--tech tech manufacturingmanufacturing sector grew by 18.2 percent, IT services and other sector grew by 18.2 percent, IT services and other producer services recorded producer services recorded rapid rapid growth, and growth, and industrialindustrial chains became more chains became more resilient. Rresilient. Reegional development strategies were well implemented, and new gional development strategies were well implemented, and new urbanization was steadily advanced.urbanization was steadily advanced.
—
—RReforeform and opening up were deepened.m and opening up were deepened. In key fields and sectors, a full range of In key fields and sectors, a full range of major reforms were rolled out, and supplymajor reforms were rolled out, and supply--sideside structuralstructural reform was deepened. reform was deepened. NNew gains were made in the ew gains were made in the reform to streamline administration and delegate reform to streamline administration and delegate power, improve regulation,power, improve regulation, and upgrade servicesand upgrade services. . TThe total number of market he total number of market entities surpassed the 150entities surpassed the 150--million mark. Themillion mark. The Belt and RoadBelt and Road InitiativeInitiative saw steady saw steady highhigh--quality development. China quality development. China workworked for the entry into force of the Regional ed for the entry into force of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement.Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement. TThe total volume of trade in he total volume of trade in goods grew by 21.4 percent, and goods grew by 21.4 percent, and growthgrowth of utilized foreign investment was of utilized foreign investment was sustained.sustained.
—
—Ecological conservation was enhanced.Ecological conservation was enhanced. Thanks to further steps taken to prevent Thanks to further steps taken to prevent and control pollution,and control pollution, the the discharge of major pollutantsdischarge of major pollutants contcontinued to fall and the inued to fall and the average concentration of fine particulate matteraverage concentration of fine particulate matter (PM(PM2.52.5)) dropped dropped by by 9.1 percent9.1 percent in in cities at and above cities at and above the the prefecture levelprefecture level. . TThe first group of national parks were he first group of national parks were
中央党史和文献研究院译
3
officially established. Significant
officially established. Significant improvementimprovements were made in the s were made in the qualityquality of the of the environmentenvironment..
—
—Living standards rose steadily.Living standards rose steadily. Per capita disposable incomePer capita disposable income increased by increased by 88.1.1 percentpercent in real terms.in real terms. AAchievements in poverty alleviationchievements in poverty alleviation were consolidated and were consolidated and further expanded. Inputs in basic elderly care, basic medical care, further expanded. Inputs in basic elderly care, basic medical care, and social and social assistance were increased. New steps were taken in assistance were increased. New steps were taken in thethe reform and reform and developmentdevelopment of of education. Renovations began on 56,000 education. Renovations began on 56,000 old urban residential communitiesold urban residential communities, , benefiting close to 10 million households.benefiting close to 10 million households.
—
—Our gains in CovidOur gains in Covid--19 response were 19 response were consolidated.consolidated. Implementation of control Implementation of control measures became routine, and over 85 percent of the population measures became routine, and over 85 percent of the population receivedreceived a full a full course of vaccination. Local outbreaks were course of vaccination. Local outbreaks were suppressedsuppressed in an effective and quick in an effective and quick manner. By making these efforts, we ensured the health amanner. By making these efforts, we ensured the health and safety of the people nd safety of the people and maintained normal order in work and life.and maintained normal order in work and life.
Reflecting on the past year, we can see that our achievements did not come
Reflecting on the past year, we can see that our achievements did not come easily. While the economy continued to recover from major shocks including easily. While the economy continued to recover from major shocks including CovidCovid--19, many new changes 19, many new changes occurredoccurred in and outside of China, and the difficulty in and outside of China, and the difficulty of keeping the of keeping the economyeconomy running stably mounted. In the face of such difficulty, we running stably mounted. In the face of such difficulty, we fully implemented the decisions and plans of the Party Central Committee with fully implemented the decisions and plans of the Party Central Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping at its core, followed the guidingComrade Xi Jinping at its core, followed the guiding principles of the Central principles of the Central Economic Work Conference; applied the new development philosophy in full, in Economic Work Conference; applied the new development philosophy in full, in the right waythe right way,, and and in all fields of endeavorin all fields of endeavor; took solid steps to ensure ; took solid steps to ensure stability on stability on six key fronts and security in six key areassix key fronts and security in six key areas,, and and made made crosscross-- andand countercounter--cyclical cyclical adjustmentsadjustments with macro policieswith macro policies. We thus effectively . We thus effectively dealdealt with all risks and t with all risks and challenges that arosechallenges that arose..
Our main work
Our main work over over the past year was as follows.the past year was as follows.
1.
1. WeWe kept kept macro policmacro policy consistent and y consistent and targetedtargeted and and kept kept the the major economic major economic indicators within indicators within the the appropriate rangeappropriate range. .
Our macro policies
Our macro policies facilitatfacilitated crossed cross--cyclcyclical adjustments and sustained the ical adjustments and sustained the level of support level of support necessarynecessary for economic recovery. We also took into account the for economic recovery. We also took into account the need to leave ample policy need to leave ample policy space space for meetinfor meeting difficulties and challenges this yearg difficulties and challenges this year..
W
We established e established a a regular regular mechanism to directly allocatemechanism to directly allocate budgetary funds to budgetary funds to

 The six fronts refer to employment, the financial sector, foreign trade, foreign investment, domestic The six fronts refer to employment, the financial sector, foreign trade, foreign investment, domestic investment, and expectations. The six areas refer to job security, basic living needs, operations of market investment, and expectations. The six areas refer to job security, basic living needs, operations of market entities, food and energy security, stable inentities, food and energy security, stable industrial and supply chains, and the normal functioning of dustrial and supply chains, and the normal functioning of primaryprimary--level governments.level governments.
中央党史和文献研究院译
4
prefecture
prefecture-- and countyand county--level governmentslevel governments and placed and placed 2.8 trillion yuan of 2.8 trillion yuan of central central government government fundingfunding under this mechanismunder this mechanism. . We also improved We also improved the way the way local local governmentgovernments issue and uses issue and use specialspecial--purpose bondspurpose bonds. .
We implemented a prudent
We implemented a prudent monetary policymonetary policy to good effect and to good effect and lowerlowereded required reserve ratiosrequired reserve ratios twice to twice to facilitatefacilitate the reduction of loan interest rates. the reduction of loan interest rates. We We took took wellwell--consideredconsidered steps to defuse local governmsteps to defuse local government debt risks and ent debt risks and dealt dealt prudentlyprudently with with major financial risks.major financial risks. WWe intensified policies to e intensified policies to stabilizstabilizee and and expandexpand employment, took solid measures employment, took solid measures to ensure employment for key groups to ensure employment for key groups like like college graduates,college graduates, and and encouragedencouraged businessbusiness startupstartupss and innovation.and innovation. WWe took e took stronger steps to keep supply and prices of major commodities stable andstronger steps to keep supply and prices of major commodities stable and to to tackle tackle supply shortages in coal and electric power. supply shortages in coal and electric power.
Over
Over thethe course of last year, all course of last year, all mamajorjor macroeconomic indicatorsmacroeconomic indicators stayed in line stayed in line with with projected targetprojected targets, the s, the deficitdeficit--toto--GDP ratioGDP ratio and and macromacro leverage ratioleverage ratio decreaseddecreased, , and Chinaand China’’s s economyeconomy remainedremained one of the fastestone of the fastest--growing economies in the worldgrowing economies in the world..
2. We refined
2. We refined and implemented and implemented policies for policies for easeasinging the the difficultiesdifficulties of of businessebusinesses s and consolidated and consolidated thethe foundation of economic recovery.foundation of economic recovery.
As o
As over one hundred million ver one hundred million market entities have market entities have given given several hundred several hundred million people million people the opportunity to the opportunity to go into business or secure employment, we go into business or secure employment, we have have continuedcontinued with with the supportive macrothe supportive macro--policy roadmpolicy roadmaps and approaches that aps and approaches that have have proved effective since the epidemic began. proved effective since the epidemic began.
Tax and fee reductions introduced last year totaled
Tax and fee reductions introduced last year totaled more than more than oneone trillion yuantrillion yuan. . In addition, tax paymentsIn addition, tax payments were postponed for were postponed for micro, small and medium micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs)enterprises (MSMEs) in in manufacturingmanufacturing as well as coalas well as coal--fired power plants and fired power plants and heatingheating--supply enterprises as a supply enterprises as a temporary temporary measure. Tax and fee reductions have measure. Tax and fee reductions have proved a direct and effective way of helping enterprises ease their difficulties. proved a direct and effective way of helping enterprises ease their difficulties. In In reality, they also reality, they also help nurture help nurture businesbusinesss growthgrowth and cultivate sources of tax revenue. and cultivate sources of tax revenue. Last year, revenue generated from taxpaying market entities registered since 2013 Last year, revenue generated from taxpaying market entities registered since 2013 reached 4.76 trillion yuan. reached 4.76 trillion yuan.
W
We strengthened the capacity of e strengthened the capacity of railway, highway,railway, highway, aviation andaviation and maritime maritime transporttransportation as well as ation as well as harbors. harbors. WWe boosted e boosted thethe creditcredit supply to supply to industries and industries and enterprises enterprises severely affected byseverely affected by CovidCovid--1919.. We continueWe continuedd policpoliciesies for micro and for micro and small small businessbusinesses to es to deferdefer principal and interest repaymentsprincipal and interest repayments on loans and on loans and take out take out more collateralmore collateral--free loans. free loans. Inclusive fInclusive finance lending inance lending to micro and small business to micro and small business by by financial institutionsfinancial institutions increased increased by by 27.3 percent27.3 percent, with the figure rising to, with the figure rising to over over 40 40 percentpercent for large for large commercialcommercial banksbanks, and , and overall overall financing costfinancing costs s of businesses of businesses
中央党史和文献研究院译
5
dropped
dropped steadily.steadily.
3.
3. WeWe deepened reform, expanded opening up, and continued to improve the deepened reform, expanded opening up, and continued to improve the business environment. business environment.
W
We worked harder to develop the underlying institutions for e worked harder to develop the underlying institutions for a market systema market system, , and pushed forward and pushed forward reformreformss to ensure to ensure production factorsproduction factors are allocated by the are allocated by the marketmarket. . WWe e continued to reduce continued to reduce the the number of number of proceduresprocedures andand length of length of time time it it takes for enterprises to gain takes for enterprises to gain government government approvalapproval.. More More government services government services were were made available made available online.online. A package of successful practices in local reform were A package of successful practices in local reform were applied nationwide, and applied nationwide, and trialstrials were conducted to improve the business were conducted to improve the business environment. environment.
We bolstered regulation and adopted new regulatory approaches, took action
We bolstered regulation and adopted new regulatory approaches, took action against business against business monopoliesmonopolies,, and prevented the and prevented the unregulated expansion of capitalunregulated expansion of capital, , thus ensuring thus ensuring fair fair market market competiticompetition.on. We We continuecontinuedd implementation of implementation of the the threethree--year action plan for SOE reformyear action plan for SOE reform and supportedand supported the the healthy healthy development of development of private businesses.private businesses. The reform to delink industry associations and chambers of The reform to delink industry associations and chambers of commerce from government commerce from government was basically was basically completed.completed. The The BeijingBeijing StocStock Exchangek Exchange and Guangzhou Futuresand Guangzhou Futures Exchange were opened. SExchange were opened. Solid strides olid strides were made were made in in reforms reforms in in agriculture, rural development, agriculture, rural development, social programssocial programs, and , and ecological ecological conservationconservation. .
W
We deepened practical e deepened practical cooperationcooperation to jointly advanceto jointly advance the Belt and Road the Belt and Road Initiative.Initiative. EEfforts to ensure stable performance in fforts to ensure stable performance in foreign trade and investmentforeign trade and investment were intensifiedwere intensified. We successfully hosted a number of major expos, including . We successfully hosted a number of major expos, including thethe China International Import Expo, the China Import and Export Fair, the China China International Import Expo, the China Import and Export Fair, the China International Fair for Trade inInternational Fair for Trade in Services, and the first China International Consumer Services, and the first China International Consumer Products ExpoProducts Expo. Comprehensive . Comprehensive ttrials rials for further for further openingopening up of the services sector up of the services sector were expanded to four more areas, and new measures for developing were expanded to four more areas, and new measures for developing the Hainan the Hainan Free Trade PortFree Trade Port were adopted.were adopted.
4.
4. WeWe ppromoteromotedd innovationinnovation--driven developmentdriven development and and stabilizedstabilized industrindustrialial and and supply chainssupply chains. .
W
We boosted the development of e boosted the development of national laboratoriesnational laboratories and promoted and promoted implementation of major implementation of major science and science and technology programstechnology programs. . WWe e reformreformeded and and refined refined the management the management of of central central governmentgovernment fundfunding for ing for scientific and scientific and technological technological researchresearch, , increased the increased the proportion proportion of of indirect indirect expenses for research expenses for research projects, and projects, and ggaveave institutes more decisioninstitutes more decision--mmaking power overaking power over their their researchresearch. .
W
We e continuecontinuedd the the additionaladditional tax deduction tax deduction forfor R&D R&D expenses and increased expenses and increased
中央党史和文献研究院译
6
this
this deddeduuctionction to cover 100 percent of such expenses for manufacturing enterprises. to cover 100 percent of such expenses for manufacturing enterprises. Intellectual Intellectual property property right right protectionprotection was strengthened. was strengthened. Weak links in the Weak links in the industrial chains of kindustrial chains of key industries ey industries were reinforced and upgradedwere reinforced and upgraded. D. Digital igital and and smart technologiessmart technologies were adopted in were adopted in traditionaltraditional industries at a faster rate,industries at a faster rate, andand emerging industriesemerging industries maintained good momentum for developmentmaintained good momentum for development..
5.
5. WeWe promotpromoteded coordinated development coordinated development betweenbetween urban and rural areas and urban and rural areas and between between regionsregions and and iimprovmproveedd thethe structure of structure of thethe economy. economy.
To ensure implementation of all
To ensure implementation of all major regional major regional development development strategies strategies and the and the strategstrategy for y for coordinated regional developmentcoordinated regional development, we rolled out new supporting , we rolled out new supporting measures and launched several measures and launched several major projectsmajor projects. U. Urbanization with rbanization with the the focus ofocus on n county county seats was promoted. To help bolster seats was promoted. To help bolster agricultural productionagricultural production,, we ensured we ensured agricultural suppliesagricultural supplies and issued oneand issued one--time time subsidsubsidies ies totalingtotaling 20 billion yuan to 20 billion yuan to grain growersgrain growers. .
We advanced rural revitalization and
We advanced rural revitalization and designated designated 160 key 160 key counties counties to to receivreceive e assistance in pursuing rural revitalization. assistance in pursuing rural revitalization. A fiveA five--year program to improve the year program to improve the rural living environment rural living environment also got under way.also got under way.
6.
6. WeWe strengthenstrengtheneded environmental protection and promoteenvironmental protection and promotedd sustainable sustainable development. development.
W
We e consolidateconsolidatedd our gains in our gains in keepkeepinging the the skiesskies blue, waters clear, and land blue, waters clear, and land pollutionpollution--freefree. . We We encouraged farmers to encouraged farmers to use chemical fertilizer and pesticideuse chemical fertilizer and pesticide more efficiently and more efficiently and promotedpromoted the recycling of the recycling of livestock and poultry wastelivestock and poultry waste. . WWe e continued continued major projects to protect and restoremajor projects to protect and restore ecosystemsecosystems, and full, and fully y enforceenforcedd the the tenten--year fishing ban year fishing ban oonn the Yangtze Riverthe Yangtze River. .
China
China’’s s installed capacity installed capacity of renewable power exceeded one billion of renewable power exceeded one billion kilowatts.kilowatts. AAn action plan for peakn action plan for peakinging carbon emissions carbon emissions by by 20302030 was unveiled. The China was unveiled. The China Carbon Emission Trade Exchange was launched. Carbon Emission Trade Exchange was launched. WWe took ae took active ctive steps to rsteps to respond espond to to cclimate limate cchangehange..
7. We worked to
7. We worked to ensure ensure and improve and improve the the people’people’s s wellbeing and wellbeing and accelerated accelerated development of development of social programs.social programs.
We intensified efforts to sho
We intensified efforts to shore up weak linksre up weak links in rural compulsory educationin rural compulsory education, , and increased subsidies in the and increased subsidies in the nutrition improvementnutrition improvement programprogram for for compulsorycompulsory--education students in rural areaseducation students in rural areas, benefiting over 37 million students, benefiting over 37 million students.. We reduced the We reduced the homework homework load load andand easedeased the the offoff--campus campus tutoringtutoring burden burden on on students in compulsory education.students in compulsory education. We surpassedWe surpassed the the targets targets set set in in the threethe three--year year enrollment expansion enrollment expansion initiative initiative for for vocational colleges.vocational colleges. The The cap for cap for
中央党史和文献研究院译
7
government
government--subsidized studentsubsidized student loans was raised by 4,000 yuan per person per loans was raised by 4,000 yuan per person per year, year, benefbenefiting iting over five million students. over five million students.
The b
The basic pensionasic pension for retirees wfor retirees wasas increased. increased. Benefits Benefits were were raised raised for entitled for entitled groups. groups. To improve assistance and support for To improve assistance and support for thosethose in need, the scope of the in need, the scope of the subsistence allowance scheme was expanded to subsistence allowance scheme was expanded to includeinclude people with people with serious illness serious illness or or severe disabilitsevere disabilityy from from familfamiliesies just outside the margin of just outside the margin of eligibilityeligibility. .
We reformed the system for disease prevention and control. Outpatient bills
We reformed the system for disease prevention and control. Outpatient bills for more common illnessesfor more common illnesses and and chronic diseaseschronic diseases became became reimbursable under threimbursable under the e basic basic medical insurance scheme, medical insurance scheme, and and 60 percent of 60 percent of crosscross--provincial inpatient provincial inpatient medical medical expenses expenses were directly settled where were directly settled where they they were were incurred. We tightened up incurred. We tightened up regulation and supervision of drugs and vaccines.regulation and supervision of drugs and vaccines.
The
The threethree--child child policypolicy was implemented. was implemented. EElderllderly servicesy services were improvedwere improved. . GGovernmentovernment--subsidized rental housing was subsidized rental housing was increasincreaseded at a faster paceat a faster pace. . We We developed developed cultural programs and cultural programs and the cultural sector, andthe cultural sector, and launched new cultural launched new cultural projects projects to to benefit the benefit the publicpublic. . A sound online environment was fostered. A sound online environment was fostered.
We
We actively actively carrcarriedied out public fitness activitiesout public fitness activities. . Chinese Chinese athletes achieved great athletes achieved great success success inin the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Tokyo.the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Tokyo. And thanks to meticulous And thanks to meticulous preparation, China has presented the world with a simple, safe, and splendid preparation, China has presented the world with a simple, safe, and splendid 2022 2022 Winter Olympic Winter Olympic GamesGames. The . The Paralympic GamesParalympic Games, which has just opened,, which has just opened, will will undoubtedly also be a great success. undoubtedly also be a great success.
8. We made progress in building a rule of law government
8. We made progress in building a rule of law government,, developdeveloped ed new new ways ofways of conducting conducting governancegovernance,, and and maintained maintained social harmony and stability.social harmony and stability.
We submitted
We submitted 10 legislative proposals to the Standing Committee of the 10 legislative proposals to the Standing Committee of the National People’s CongressNational People’s Congress (NPC)(NPC) for deliberation, and formulated or revised 15 for deliberation, and formulated or revised 15 sets of administrative regulations. We sets of administrative regulations. We conscientiouslyconscientiously handled the handled the proposals of proposals of NPC deputies and CPPCC National CommitNPC deputies and CPPCC National Committee members. tee members. TThe Outline for Building he Outline for Building a Lawa Law--BBased Government (20ased Government (202121––20220255)) was was promulgatedpromulgated. A. Auditudit--based oversightbased oversight was enhanced. The was enhanced. The State CouncilState Council continued continued its its accountability inspectionaccountability inspections, and s, and further implemented the further implemented the Internet Internet plus model of inspection.plus model of inspection. New appNew approaches were roaches were adopted in conducting padopted in conducting primaryrimary--level governance in urban and rural areas. level governance in urban and rural areas. We We made solid headway in handlingmade solid headway in handling public complaints and public complaints and clearing the backlog of clearing the backlog of cases. cases.
We took stronger
We took stronger stepsteps to ensure workplace safety and strengthened s to ensure workplace safety and strengthened emergency response management. emergency response management. OOur ability to safeguard national securityur ability to safeguard national security was was enhancedenhanced. We improved the crime prevention and control system,. We improved the crime prevention and control system, worked to worked to crack crack
中央党史和文献研究院译
8
down on
down on organized crime and root out local criminal gorganized crime and root out local criminal gangs on an ongoing basisangs on an ongoing basis,, andand fought fought telecom and cyber fraudtelecom and cyber fraud as a priority.as a priority. During During severe flooding and other severe flooding and other disastersdisasters that hit some parts of the country last year, government authorities and that hit some parts of the country last year, government authorities and departments were actively involved in disaster prevention, reliedepartments were actively involved in disaster prevention, relief, and f, and reconstruction and reconstruction and earnestlyearnestly strived to strived to protect people’s lives and property.protect people’s lives and property.
We implemented the Party Central Committee’s strategic
We implemented the Party Central Committee’s strategic decision to decision to exercisexercisee full and strict Party selffull and strict Party self--governancegovernance.. We carried out activities to study the history We carried out activities to study the history of the CPCof the CPC, , and did more to improve Party conduct, build a governmentand did more to improve Party conduct, build a government of of integrityintegrity, and fight corruption. We strictly complied with the central Party , and fight corruption. We strictly complied with the central Party leadership’s eightleadership’s eight--point decision on improving work conduct, kept up point decision on improving work conduct, kept up our our efforts efforts to tackle pointless formalities, buto tackle pointless formalities, bureaucratism, hedonism and extravagance, and reaucratism, hedonism and extravagance, and took further steps to ease the burdens of those working on the ground.took further steps to ease the burdens of those working on the ground.
We
We advancedadvanced China’s China’s majormajor--country country diplomacydiplomacy on all fronts. President Xi on all fronts. President Xi Jinping and other Party and state leaders attended, via video link, Jinping and other Party and state leaders attended, via video link, major major diplomatic events, includingdiplomatic events, including the 7the 766th UN General Assemblyth UN General Assembly, , the the 16th16th G20 Leaders’ G20 Leaders’ SummiSummit,t, the 2the 28th8th APEC Economic Leaders’ MeetingAPEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting, the 13, the 13thth BRICS Summit, BRICS Summit, the the Special Special Summit Summit to Commemorate to Commemorate the 30th Anniversary of Cthe 30th Anniversary of Chinahina--ASEAN Dialogue ASEAN Dialogue Relations,Relations, the opening ceremony of the Eighththe opening ceremony of the Eighth Ministerial Conference of the Forum Ministerial Conference of the Forum on Chinaon China--Africa CooperationAfrica Cooperation,, the East Asia leaders’ meetings on cooperation the East Asia leaders’ meetings on cooperation and and the the 13th 13th AsiaAsia--Europe Europe Meeting.Meeting. We also We also successfully hostedsuccessfully hosted a number of major a number of major diplomatic events. diplomatic events.
We
We promopromoted ted the building of a human community with a shared future,the building of a human community with a shared future, fostered fostered global partnershipsglobal partnerships, and , and played an active part played an active part in the reform and in the reform and development development of the global governance systemof the global governance system. . WWe advanced internationale advanced international cooperation on Covidcooperation on Covid--1919 response and response and workedworked with with alall other countriesl other countries to to respond respond to issues and challenges global in nature. We have thus contributedto issues and challenges global in nature. We have thus contributed our share to our share to promoting world peace and development. promoting world peace and development.
Fellow Deputies,
Fellow Deputies,
We owe our achievements last year to the strong leadership of the Party
We owe our achievements last year to the strong leadership of the Party Central Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping at its core, the sound guidance of Xi Central Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping at its core, the sound guidance of Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era, and the Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era, and the concerted efforts of thconcerted efforts of the Party, the armed forces and Chinese people of all ethnic e Party, the armed forces and Chinese people of all ethnic groups. groups.
On behalf of the State Council, I wish to express sincere gratitude to all our
On behalf of the State Council, I wish to express sincere gratitude to all our
中央党史和文献研究院译
9
people, and to all other political parties, people’s organizations, and public figures
people, and to all other political parties, people’s organizations, and public figures from all sectors of sofrom all sectors of society. I express heartfelt appreciation to our fellow ciety. I express heartfelt appreciation to our fellow countrymen and women in the Hong Kong and Macao special administrative countrymen and women in the Hong Kong and Macao special administrative regions, in Taiwanregions, in Taiwan,, and overseas. I also wish to express heartfelt thanks to the and overseas. I also wish to express heartfelt thanks to the governments of other countries, international orgagovernments of other countries, international organizations and friends across the nizations and friends across the world who have shown understanding and support for us in China as we pursue world who have shown understanding and support for us in China as we pursue modernization.modernization.
While recognizing our achievements, we
While recognizing our achievements, we are are also very clear about also very clear about the problems the problems and challenges before us.and challenges before us.
T
The Covidhe Covid--19 pandemic19 pandemic is stiis still ongoing. The ll ongoing. The world economworld economic recovery lacks ic recovery lacks drive,drive, and and commodity commodity prices prices remain high and are prone to remain high and are prone to fluctuatfluctuation. All of this ion. All of this is making our external environment is making our external environment increasingly increasingly volatilevolatile, grave and uncertain, grave and uncertain..
In pursing economic development, China is under
In pursing economic development, China is under the triple the triple pressurepressuress of of shrinking demand, disrupted supshrinking demand, disrupted supply and weakening expectationsply and weakening expectations.. Local CovidLocal Covid--19 19 cases cases are are still still occurringoccurring sporadicallysporadically. . The recovery of cThe recovery of consumption and investment onsumption and investment is sluggish.is sluggish. It is getting more difficult to maintain steady It is getting more difficult to maintain steady growthgrowth in in exports, the exports, the supply of energy resources and raw materials supply of energy resources and raw materials remains remains inadequateinadequate, and , and imported imported inflationary pressureinflationary pressure hashas increasedincreased. . Many MSMEs Many MSMEs and selfand self--employed individualsemployed individuals face difficulty in production and business operations, andface difficulty in production and business operations, and the task of the task of stabstabilizingilizing employmentemployment is more formidableis more formidable. Our capacity to support innovation . Our capacity to support innovation is lacking is lacking in in key areas. The budgetary imbalances of some localkey areas. The budgetary imbalances of some local governmentsgovernments have become have become more pronounced, and more pronounced, and many potential many potential risks risks are present are present in in the the economic and economic and financial sectors. financial sectors. IIn areasn areas that are important to the that are important to the public wellbeingpublic wellbeing, numerous , numerous issuesissues needneed to be addressed. to be addressed.
T
There is here is also also room for improvement room for improvement iin the work of government. Pointless n the work of government. Pointless formalities and bureaucratism remain an acute issue. formalities and bureaucratism remain an acute issue. Cases Cases of of becoming detached becoming detached from realityfrom reality and and actacting against the public willing against the public will areare still frequent.still frequent. SSome localome local governmentsgovernments use use oneone--sizesize--fitsfits--all all or or campaigncampaign--stylestyle approaches in policy approaches in policy implementationimplementation.. A small number of officials A small number of officials either shirk their either shirk their responsibilitresponsibilitiesies,, fail fail to do their jobs, or to do their jobs, or behavbehavee irresponsiblyirresponsibly.. Some officials,Some officials, by by disregarding serious disregarding serious infringeinfringementmentss onon thethe rights and interests rights and interests of the people, haveof the people, have been derelict in their been derelict in their dutiesduties. . Corruption Corruption remains remains a common problem in some a common problem in some sectorsectors.s.
We
We must be more must be more mindfulmindful of potential difficultiesof potential difficulties, fac, face problems and e problems and challenges squarely, challenges squarely, make every effort to make every effort to deliver a satisfactory performance, and deliver a satisfactory performance, and do our utmost to live up to people’s expectations.do our utmost to live up to people’s expectations.
中央党史和文献研究院译
10
II.
II. Overall RequirementsOverall Requirements and Policy Orientation forand Policy Orientation for
Economic and Social Development in 202Economic and Social Development in 20222
This year is of great significance in the cause of This year is of great significance in the cause of thethe Party and the Party and the countrycountry, as , as the Communist Party of China will hold its the Communist Party of China will hold its 2020th National Congressth National Congress. For the . For the governmentgovernment to deliver, we must, under the strong leadership of the Party Central to deliver, we must, under the strong leadership of the Party Central Committee with ComrCommittee with Comrade Xi Jinping at its core, do the following: ade Xi Jinping at its core, do the following:
 follow the guidance of Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese follow the guidance of Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese CCharacteristics for a New Era;haracteristics for a New Era;
 implement the guiding principles of the Partyimplement the guiding principles of the Party’’s 19th National Congress s 19th National Congress and and allall plenary sessions of the 19th Party Central Committee;plenary sessions of the 19th Party Central Committee;
 carry forwardcarry forward the grethe great founding spirit of the Partyat founding spirit of the Party;;
 act on the general principle of pursuing progress while ensuring stability;act on the general principle of pursuing progress while ensuring stability;
 applyapply the new development the new development philosophyphilosophy in full, in the right way, and in in full, in the right way, and in all all fields of endeavor fields of endeavor and and move faster to move faster to create a new pattern of development;create a new pattern of development;
 deepen reform and opening up deepen reform and opening up in all respects;in all respects;
 pursue innovationpursue innovation--driven development;driven development;
 ppromoteromote highhigh--quality developmentquality development;;
 advance supplyadvance supply--side structural reform as the main taskside structural reform as the main task;;
 resrespond topond to CovidCovid--19 and 19 and pursue pursue economic and social developmenteconomic and social development in a in a wellwell--coordinated waycoordinated way;;
 ensure both ensure both development and security;development and security;
 continue to continue to ensure stability on six key fronts and maintain security in six ensure stability on six key fronts and maintain security in six key areas;key areas;
 keep keep woworking to improverking to improve people’s livespeople’s lives;;
 stristrive to maintain stable macroeconomic ve to maintain stable macroeconomic pperformance;erformance;
 keep major economic indicators within an keep major economic indicators within an appropriateappropriate range;range; andand
 maintain maintain overall overall social stability.social stability.
These efforts will enable us to pave the way for a
These efforts will enable us to pave the way for a successfulsuccessful 2020th National th National Party CongressParty Congress..
A
A comprehensive analysis of comprehensive analysis of evolving dynamics evolving dynamics at home and abroadat home and abroad indicates indicates that this year our country will that this year our country will encounterencounter many more many more risks and challengesrisks and challenges, and we , and we must must keep keep pushingpushing to overcome theto overcome themm.. The harder things get, the more confident The harder things get, the more confident we must be, and the morwe must be, and the more solid steps we must take to deliver outcomes. e solid steps we must take to deliver outcomes.
中央党史和文献研究院译
11
The
The fundamentals fundamentals of our economy remain unchanged, and they will maintain of our economy remain unchanged, and they will maintain longlong--term growth. We have many favorable conditions for sustaining development. term growth. We have many favorable conditions for sustaining development. Most notably, our people, in their Most notably, our people, in their hundreds of millionhundreds of millionss, aspire to a better life, have , aspire to a better life, have huge potential for starting businesses and huge potential for starting businesses and engagingengaging in innovation, and are in innovation, and are resolved to overcome all difficultiesresolved to overcome all difficulties together. We have also together. We have also acquiredacquired a a wealthwealth of of experience in dealing with major risks and challenges. There is noexperience in dealing with major risks and challenges. There is no doubt but that doubt but that ChinaChina’’s economy will withstand anys economy will withstand any newnew downward pressuredownward pressure anand d continue continue growing steadily long into the futuregrowing steadily long into the future..
The main
The main projected projected targets for targets for development development this year are as follows:this year are as follows:
 GDP growth of GDP growth of around 5.5around 5.5 percentpercent
 oover 11 million ver 11 million new urban new urban jobs jobs
 a surveyed urban a surveyed urban unemployment rateunemployment rate ofof no more than no more than 5.5 percent5.5 percent
 CPI CPI increase ofincrease of around 3 percentaround 3 percent
 ggrowth in personal income that is basically in step with economic growthrowth in personal income that is basically in step with economic growth
 steady increases in both the volume and quality of isteady increases in both the volume and quality of importmportss and exportand exports s
 a a basic basic equilibrium in the balance of paymentsequilibrium in the balance of payments
 ggrain outputrain output of over of over 665050 million metric tonsmillion metric tons
 further improvement in the environmentfurther improvement in the environment
 ccontinued reduction in the discharge of major pollutantsontinued reduction in the discharge of major pollutants
 energy consumption per unit of GDP to be assessed with appropriate energy consumption per unit of GDP to be assessed with appropriate flexibilflexibilityity within the framework of within the framework of the 14th Fivethe 14th Five--Year Plan; Year Plan; and the and the exclusion of newly added renewable energy and coal, exclusion of newly added renewable energy and coal, petroleumpetroleum, and , and natural gas consumed as raw materials innatural gas consumed as raw materials in the total amount of energy the total amount of energy consumptionconsumption. .
The above economic growth
The above economic growth targettarget is basedis based mainly on mainly on thethe need to need to maintain maintain stable employmentstable employment,, meetmeet basic living needsbasic living needs, and guard against risks. This target is , and guard against risks. This target is alsoalso in keepingin keeping with the with the average growth rates of the last two years and the goals of average growth rates of the last two years and the goals of the the 14th Five14th Five--Year PlanYear Plan. It represents a . It represents a mediummedium--high rathigh rate of growthe of growth given our given our large large economic aggregate, economic aggregate, andand demonstrates our ability to move proactively. But demonstrates our ability to move proactively. But achieving this goal will require achieving this goal will require arduousarduous efforts.efforts.
To fulfill the development goals and tasks for the year, we should pursue
To fulfill the development goals and tasks for the year, we should pursue prudent and effective macro poprudent and effective macro policies, micro policies that can continuously licies, micro policies that can continuously energize energize market entitiesmarket entities, and structural policies that facilitate smooth, and structural policies that facilitate smooth flows in the economyflows in the economy.. SScience and technology policcience and technology policies should be fully implemented, reform and opening ies should be fully implemented, reform and opening
中央党史和文献研究院译
12
up policies should lend impetus to
up policies should lend impetus to ddevelopmentevelopment, regional policies should ensure , regional policies should ensure more balanced and coordinated development, and social policies should meet more balanced and coordinated development, and social policies should meet basic living needs. All of us involved must adopt detailed and effective measures basic living needs. All of us involved must adopt detailed and effective measures to meet these major policy requirements and create syneto meet these major policy requirements and create synergy for driving growth.rgy for driving growth.
M
Macro policies should be kept consistent acro policies should be kept consistent and made and made more effectivemore effective. . The The proactive fiscal policy proactive fiscal policy shouldshould bebe more more effectualeffectual, more targeted, and more , more targeted, and more sustainable. sustainable. The The prudent monetary policy prudent monetary policy shouldshould be be both both flexible and appropriate, flexible and appropriate, with with reasonably ample liquidity bereasonably ample liquidity beinging maintained.maintained. The employment-first policy should be pursued with intensified efforts to deliver the desired outcomes. These policies should produce effects early on, and the policy tools we have in reserve should be promptly deployed to ensure stable economic performance.
We will continue effective routine Covid-19 control. To prevent inbound cases and domestic resurgences, we need to constantly refine epidemic containment measures, strengthen epidemic controls in port-of-entry cities, step up efforts to study and protect against virus variants, accelerate R&D of new vaccines and effective medicines, continue implementing vaccination programs, and give full play to the unique role of traditional Chinese medicine. Occurrences of local cases must be handled in a scientific and targeted manner, and the the normal normal order of order of work work and lifeand life must be ensuredmust be ensured.
In our work this year, we must make economic stability our top priority and pursue progress while ensuring stability. In the face of new downward pressure, the task of ensuring stable growth needs to occupy an even more ensuring stable growth needs to occupy an even more prominentprominent positionposition. All localities and government departments should fulfill their responsibilities for maintaining stable macroeconomic performance by proactively introducing pro-stability policies.
We should take coordinated moves to keep growth stable, promote structural adjustment, and carry out reform. We should work faster to transform the growth model, and say no to an extensive development model. We should follow a fact-based approach, and bear in mind bear in mind thethe fundamental dimension of Chinafundamental dimension of China’’s s national context, that is, it is national context, that is, it is stillstill in the primary stage of socialismin the primary stage of socialism. We should . We should manage our own affairs well, and manage our own affairs well, and respect the laws of development, the reality on the ground, and the needs of the people.
We should work in creative ways in light of actual conditions and motivate all motivate all stakeholders to pursue development endeavorsstakeholders to pursue development endeavors. . We should promote both an efficient market and a well-functioning government, and we should be adept at
中央党史和文献研究院译
13
using reform and innovation to boost market dynamism and social creativity. We must act on the people-centered development philosophy and rely on the efforts of everyone to promote prosperity for all, so as to keep realizing the people’s aspirations for a better life.
III. Major Tasks for 2022
This year, we face heavy tasks and many challenges in economic and social development. We should follow the decisions and requirements of the Party the Party Central Central Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping at its core,Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping at its core, applyapply the new the new development development philosophyphilosophy in full, in the right way, and in all fields of endeavor,in full, in the right way, and in all fields of endeavor, move faster to move faster to create a new pattern of developmentcreate a new pattern of development, and, and ppromoteromote highhigh--quality quality developmentdevelopment, so as to , so as to deliver solid outcomes in all areas of our work.
1. Achieving stable macroeconomic performance and keeping major economic indicators within the appropriate range
We
We must continue to ensure stability on six fronts and maintain security in six stability on six fronts and maintain security in six areasareas. We have both macro. We have both macro--policy tools and space available to us, and we should policy tools and space available to us, and we should use them to use them to intensify cross- and counter-cyclical adjustments and to provide strong support for a stable economic performance.
We
We will see that the will see that the proactive fiscal policyproactive fiscal policy is more eis more effectiveffective. . WWe have set te have set the he deficitdeficit--toto--GDP ratio GDP ratio for the for the year atyear at aroundaround 2.82.8 percentpercent,, slightlyslightly lower than last year, lower than last year, and this will boost and this will boost fiscal sustainabilityfiscal sustainability. It is projected that fiscal. It is projected that fiscal revenue revenue will will continue to grow in 2022. continue to grow in 2022. In aIn addddition, weition, we also have also have available to us available to us the surplus the surplus profits profits of of statestate--owned financial institutions and owned financial institutions and state monopoly state monopoly business business operations operations from recent years from recent years turned over in accordance with the law and funds turned over in accordance with the law and funds transferred fromtransferred from the Central Budget Stabilization Fundthe Central Budget Stabilization Fund. This will make it po. This will make it possible ssible for government to increase expenditures by more than two trillion yuan over last for government to increase expenditures by more than two trillion yuan over last year, putting year, putting significantly greater fiscal resources significantly greater fiscal resources at our disposal. New funds will at our disposal. New funds will be channeled to local levels of government and used mainly to easebe channeled to local levels of government and used mainly to ease the the difficultiesdifficulties of enterprises, stabilize employment, meet living needs, and increase consumption and demand.
This year, central government expenditures will rise by 3.9 percent, but the budgetary spending of central government departments will continue to register negative growth. Central government transfer payments to local governments will come to close to 9.8 trillion yuan. This figure represents a growth of 18 percent, or
中央党史和文献研究院译
14
around 1.5 trillion yuan, and is the largest increase in recent years. The central government will place more place more budgetary budgetary fundsfunds under the mechanism for direct under the mechanism for direct allocationallocation toto prefectureprefecture-- and countyand county--level governmentslevel governments, and provincial, and provincial--level level governments should also governments should also provide additional fiscal support to these levelsprovide additional fiscal support to these levels. It is . It is imperative that local goimperative that local governments are both able and motivated to carry out vernments are both able and motivated to carry out policies that will benefit businesses and people.policies that will benefit businesses and people.
We will use government investment funds to
We will use government investment funds to stimulate stimulate and and expand expand effective effective investment. investment. This year, This year, specialspecial--purposepurpose bonds fobonds for local governmentsr local governments will total will total 33..665 5 trillion yuantrillion yuan. We will, taking a performance. We will, taking a performance--oriented approach, ensure that oriented approach, ensure that investment fundsinvestment funds and and other production factorsother production factors stay with projects they are allocated stay with projects they are allocated to, to, while while appropriately widenappropriately wideninging the scope of usage for the scope of usage for such factorssuch factors. We will . We will support followsupport follow--uup financing for ongoing projects, and begin construction on major p financing for ongoing projects, and begin construction on major projects that are ready for launching, new types of infrastructure, and renovations projects that are ready for launching, new types of infrastructure, and renovations of outdated public facilities. of outdated public facilities.
T
The he lionlion’’s share of s share of investmentinvestment in Cin Chhina comes from the nonina comes from the non--government sector. government sector. We will give full play to the leveraging role of major projects and government We will give full play to the leveraging role of major projects and government investment and refine relevant supporting policies to keep noninvestment and refine relevant supporting policies to keep non--government government investors fully investors fully motivatedmotivated..
Government will keep its Government will keep its beltbelt tigtightened andhtened and keep spending keep spending low to benefit the low to benefit the people.people. We will We will improve the improve the mix of government mix of government spendingspending so as to ensure so as to ensure funding for key funding for key areasareas and and strictly strictly control control general expenditures.general expenditures. BBudgetary fundsudgetary funds and assetsand assets sitting sitting idle will be put into good use. Governments at every level need to operate within idle will be put into good use. Governments at every level need to operate within their means and their means and economizeeconomize where possible, and central and provincialwhere possible, and central and provincial--level level governments should take the lead in this regard. governments should take the lead in this regard.
M
Managementanagement of of fiscal receipts and outlaysfiscal receipts and outlays will be tightened up, and will be tightened up, and wasteful wasteful and excessive spending will be prohibitedand excessive spending will be prohibited. . We will prevent the construction of We will prevent the construction of new government buildings new government buildings in in violation of regulationsviolation of regulations. No vanity projects. No vanity projects will be will be tolerated, and anyone who violates fiscal tolerated, and anyone who violates fiscal disciplinediscipline or or squasquandernderss public public funds will funds will be be investigatedinvestigated and severely punished. We must ensure that our precious funds and severely punished. We must ensure that our precious funds are used in areas that are are used in areas that are criticalcritical to development and to meet the urgent needs of to development and to meet the urgent needs of the people.the people.
We will step up implementation of
We will step up implementation of the the prudent monetary prudent monetary policy.policy. We will use We will use monetary policy tools to adjust both the monetary aggregate and the monetary monetary policy tools to adjust both the monetary aggregate and the monetary structure, so as to provide more robust support for the real economy. We will structure, so as to provide more robust support for the real economy. We will expand the scale of new loans, see that expand the scale of new loans, see that increaseincreases in s in money supply and aggregate money supply and aggregate
中央党史和文献研究院译
15
f
financinginancing are generally are generally in step with in step with nominal nominal economic growth, and keep the macro economic growth, and keep the macro leverage ratio generally stable.leverage ratio generally stable. TThe RMB exchange rate he RMB exchange rate will be kept will be kept generally generally stable at an adaptive, balanced levelstable at an adaptive, balanced level. .
We will further improve the
We will further improve the transmission mechanism of monetransmission mechanism of monetary policytary policy, , channel more funds into key areas and weak links, and expand the coverage of channel more funds into key areas and weak links, and expand the coverage of inclusive finance. Finclusive finance. Financialinancial institutions will be encouraged to lower real loan institutions will be encouraged to lower real loan interest rates and cut fees, so as to truly make it easier for market entities to access interest rates and cut fees, so as to truly make it easier for market entities to access financing and achieve a considerable drop in overall financing costs.financing and achieve a considerable drop in overall financing costs.
We will strengthen the employment-first policy. We will work to broaden the employment channels, promote employment stability by keeping the operations of market entities stable, and harnessharness the role of business startups in boosting the role of business startups in boosting employmentemployment. . Fiscal and financial policies will facilitate implementation of the employment-first policy, and greater support will be provided for enterprises to stabilize and expand employmentstabilize and expand employment. A. All dedicated employment policies will be strengthened and improved, and we will resolutely act to overhaul or abolish excessive excessive restrictions on employment and business startups. All local governments must use every possible means to stabilize employment and expand itevery possible means to stabilize employment and expand it furtherfurther. .
We will ensure food and energy security. We will ensure the supply of grain and other major agricultural products, as well as the supply and price stability of energy and important raw materials, and guarantee sufficient electricity to meet people’s living needs and conduct normal business production and operations. We will implement a comprehensive resource conservation strategy. To enhance China’s capacity for resource production and supply, we will step up petroleumpetroleum,, natural gasnatural gas and mineral and mineral exploration and exploration and developmentdevelopment, improve the national strategic goods reserve system, and ensure the supply of primary products. We will crack down on price gouging, and ensure price levels are kept generally stable.
We will prevent and defuse major risks. We will continue to guard against and address economic and financial risks in accordance with the fundamental principles of maintaining overall stability, ensuring coordination, implementing category-based policies, and defusing risks through targeted efforts. We will see that local governments fulfill their responsibilities, the competent government departments tighten regulation, and enterprises shoulder primary responsibility. We will make stronger efforts to give early-warning of risks, enhance risk prevention and control mechanisms, and build capacities for responding to risks. A fund for ensuring financial stability will be established, the deposit insurance system and industry guarantee funds will be brought fully into play, and market-
中央党史和文献研究院译
16
and law-based methods will be used to defuse risks and potential dangers and to respond to external shocks. All these efforts will ensure that no systemic risks arise.
2. Keeping the operations of market entities stable and maintaining job 2. Keeping the operations of market entities stable and maintaining job security by strengthening macro policiessecurity by strengthening macro policies
We will improve policies for easing the burdens and difficulties of market We will improve policies for easing the burdens and difficulties of market entities and create a entities and create a strongerstronger foundation for achieving a foundation for achieving a stabstable and sounder le and sounder economic performance.economic performance.
We will We will implementimplement a new a new packagepackage of taxof tax--andand--fee policies to support enterprisesfee policies to support enterprises.. We We will continue to take will continue to take temporarytemporary steps and institutional measures and apply policies steps and institutional measures and apply policies for both tax reductions and refunds. for both tax reductions and refunds.
First
First, , we will extend we will extend tax and fee reduction tax and fee reduction policies that support manufacturing, policies that support manufacturing, micro and small enterprises and selfmicro and small enterprises and self--employed individuals, and expand the scale employed individuals, and expand the scale and and scope of these policies. A temporary exemption on VAT payments will be scope of these policies. A temporary exemption on VAT payments will be granted to small taxpayers. Corporate income tax on annual taxable income of granted to small taxpayers. Corporate income tax on annual taxable income of between one million and three million yuan will be halved once again for micro between one million and three million yuan will be halved once again for micro and small enterprises. Local and small enterprises. Local governments should also adopt effective taxgovernments should also adopt effective tax--andand--fee fee reduction steps based on local conditions and in accordance with the law to reduction steps based on local conditions and in accordance with the law to maintain the scale of maintain the scale of taxtax--andand--fee reductionfee reductions and keep s and keep market expectationsmarket expectations stablestable..
Second, to improve the cash flow of enterpris
Second, to improve the cash flow of enterprises, promotees, promote employmentemployment-- andand consumconsumptionption--drivendriven investmeninvestment, t, and and further further improve the system for improve the system for refunding refunding excess input excess input VAT creditsVAT credits, we will issue VAT credit refunds , we will issue VAT credit refunds ahead of time this year ahead of time this year on a big scale. on a big scale. We will give We will give priority to micro and small enterprisespriority to micro and small enterprises, , refunding refunding outstanding outstanding VAT creditsVAT credits to them to them in one lump sumin one lump sum bby the end ofy the end of June, June, while also while also fully fully refundingrefunding newly added newly added creditscredits. . With a With a focus on supporting manufacturing, focus on supporting manufacturing, we will we will work to fully resolve problems in work to fully resolve problems in refundrefundinging VAT creditsVAT credits in manufacturing, in manufacturing, researchresearch and technical and technical serviceservices, s, environmental protection,environmental protection, electricityelectricity and gas, and and gas, and transportationtransportation industries. Such a industries. Such a substantial substantial increase in VAT credit refunds will increase in VAT credit refunds will help help strongly boost strongly boost market confidence.market confidence.
T
Tax ax refunds and refunds and cuts cuts are expected to total 2.5are expected to total 2.5 tritrillion yuanllion yuan this yearthis year.. VAT VAT creditcredit refunds refunds will will account for 1.5 trillion yuan of this sumaccount for 1.5 trillion yuan of this sum and and all all go go straight straight to to enterprisesenterprises. . The central government willThe central government will provide greater provide greater fiscalfiscal support for local support for local governmentsgovernments andand allocate allocate fiscal subsidies directly to fiscal subsidies directly to the the prefecture and countyprefecture and county levelslevels.. LLocal governments and relevant departments should develop sound ocal governments and relevant departments should develop sound systems systems to to allocate funds more effectively. We must ensure that the critically allocate funds more effectively. We must ensure that the critically important policy of taximportant policy of tax refunds and cutsrefunds and cuts takes full effect, in order to provide takes full effect, in order to provide
中央党史和文献研究院译
17
ent
enterprises with timely assistance and help them erprises with timely assistance and help them generategenerate fresh vitality. fresh vitality.
We will
We will encourage encourage the financial sector to provide the financial sector to provide more more effective support to the real effective support to the real economyeconomy.. We will make good use of instruments to support inclusive loans to micro We will make good use of instruments to support inclusive loans to micro and small businesand small businesses, and increase reses, and increase re--lending for lending for agriculturalagricultural and small enterprises.and small enterprises. WWe will strengthen e will strengthen supervisionsupervision andand assessmentassessment to promote to promote a marked increaa marked increase in se in inclusive loans inclusive loans to micro and small businessesto micro and small businesses and a and a furtherfurther rise in the proportion rise in the proportion of of collateralcollateral--freefree loans and firstloans and first--time loans. We will see that financial institutions time loans. We will see that financial institutions have a good understanding of credit policies, ensure continued financing support have a good understanding of credit policies, ensure continued financing support for for industries industries and enterprises hit hardand enterprises hit hard by by CovidCovid--19, and prevent industry19, and prevent industry--wide wide lending restrictions, forcelending restrictions, forced early repayment of loans, and arbitrary termination of d early repayment of loans, and arbitrary termination of loan agreements. loan agreements.
We will make good use of policy
We will make good use of policy--backed and development finance.backed and development finance. We will We will promotepromote the sharing of enterprise credit information and move faster to achieve the sharing of enterprise credit information and move faster to achieve information information integration and integration and ssharing between financial institutions and tax offices, haring between financial institutions and tax offices, customs, electric utilities and other agencies. Tcustoms, electric utilities and other agencies. Thhe ge government financing guarantyovernment financing guaranty will be expanded to cover more micro and small businesses. We will strive to will be expanded to cover more micro and small businesses. We will strive to create a favorable financing environment acreate a favorable financing environment and help resolve nd help resolve the financingthe financing difficulties difficulties of enterprises in the real economy, especially MSMEsof enterprises in the real economy, especially MSMEs. .
We will help lower business costs.
We will help lower business costs. We will We will rectifyrectify excessive excessive surcharges surcharges levied by levied by utility companies, and support local governments in adopting temporary utility companies, and support local governments in adopting temporary preferential policies on electricity use forpreferential policies on electricity use for industries which are experiencing industries which are experiencing particularparticular difficulty. We will encourage large platform difficulty. We will encourage large platform enterpriseenterprises to lower service s to lower service fees and lighten the burden on fees and lighten the burden on smallsmall and medium businesses. Further steps will be and medium businesses. Further steps will be taken to rtaken to regulate and overhaul fees charged by egulate and overhaul fees charged by industry associations,industry associations, chambers of chambers of commerce, and intermediariescommerce, and intermediaries..
We will
We will launchlaunch initiatives to end unjustifiedinitiatives to end unjustified chargescharges levied on businesses, and levied on businesses, and develop mechanisms for develop mechanisms for coordinated coordinated regulation and regulation and joint punishmentjoint punishment. We wil. We will l fully fully investigateinvestigate and punish the imposition of and punish the imposition of arbitraryarbitrary charges, fines, and quotas.charges, fines, and quotas.
We will intensify efforts to get outstanding payments
We will intensify efforts to get outstanding payments owed to owed to small and small and medium enterprises cleared.medium enterprises cleared. We will standardize the usage of commercial We will standardize the usage of commercial acceptance acceptance bills, and bills, and ensure that government bodies, public institutions, and ensure that government bodies, public institutions, and statestate--owned enterprises (SOEs) take the lead in clearingowned enterprises (SOEs) take the lead in clearing overdue payments.overdue payments.
Catering
Catering, , hospitality, retailhospitality, retail,, culture,culture, tourismtourism, and , and passenger transportpassenger transport sectors sectors have ahave a large capacity for employmentlarge capacity for employment. . HHowevowever, they have been er, they have been severely affected severely affected by by CovidCovid--19. S19. Support policies will be weighted more heavily towardupport policies will be weighted more heavily toward enterprises in enterprises in
中央党史和文献研究院译
18
these sectors
these sectors to help to help them stay afloat and get them stay afloat and get through challenging timethrough challenging timess with with bright prospectsbright prospects. .
We will
We will fully implement all fully implement all measures measures to to stabilizestabilize employment.employment. Temporary policies Temporary policies such as such as reductionreductions to s to premiums for unemployment insurance and premiums for unemployment insurance and workersworkers’’ compensation will be extended. We will continue the policy ofcompensation will be extended. We will continue the policy of refundingrefunding unemployment insurance premiumsunemployment insurance premiums for enterprises that make no cuts or minfor enterprises that make no cuts or minimal imal cuts to staff numbers, with a marked increase in the cuts to staff numbers, with a marked increase in the proportionproportion of refunds going to of refunds going to MSMEs. MSMEs.
Over 10 million students are due to graduate from college this year, and we
Over 10 million students are due to graduate from college this year, and we will give our graduates strongerwill give our graduates stronger guidance andguidance and policy support and uninterrupted policy support and uninterrupted servservices to ensure they can find jobs or start businesses. We will help exices to ensure they can find jobs or start businesses. We will help ex--service service members get resettled and remembers get resettled and re--employed, broaden employed, broaden employmentemployment channels for rural channels for rural migrant workers, and assist migrant workers, and assist people with disabilitiespeople with disabilities and members of and members of zerozero--employment families in secuemployment families in securing ring jobs. jobs.
We will do more to promote business startups and innovation initiatives, and
We will do more to promote business startups and innovation initiatives, and improve the service capacity of improve the service capacity of entrepreneurship and innovationentrepreneurship and innovation platforms. We platforms. We will improve will improve services and services and social security policies concerning flexible employment, social security policies concerning flexible employment, andand launch launch trials of trials of occupational occupational injury insurance for people in new forms of injury insurance for people in new forms of employment.employment. We will We will work hardwork hard to prevent and to prevent and stop stop gendergender,, ageage,, and eand educationducation discrimination in discrimination in the workplace the workplace in order to in order to create a fair create a fair employment environmentemployment environment.. WeWe will will strengthen overstrengthen oversight and enforcement of labor protection lawssight and enforcement of labor protection laws and focus and focus on addressing on addressing acute acute issues issues that are that are infringinfringinging upon employeesupon employees’’ lalawfuwful rights and l rights and interests.interests.
We will make public employment services more targeted. We will continue to
We will make public employment services more targeted. We will continue to carry out vocational skills tracarry out vocational skills training on a large scale and establish a ining on a large scale and establish a numbernumber of of public training bases through joint construction and public training bases through joint construction and sharingsharing initiatives. A total of initiatives. A total of 100 billion yuan from the unemployment insurance fund will be used to support 100 billion yuan from the unemployment insurance fund will be used to support enterprises in maintaining stable payrolls and providing training programs, and enterprises in maintaining stable payrolls and providing training programs, and we will speed up training of skilled workers who are urgently needed to we will speed up training of skilled workers who are urgently needed to ppromoteromote highhigh--quality development of manufacturing. These efforts will quality development of manufacturing. These efforts will enableenable more more workers to acquire workers to acquire marketable skillsmarketable skills and large numbers of talented people to come and large numbers of talented people to come to the fore in all sectors. to the fore in all sectors.
3
3. . Steadfastly Steadfastly deepening deepening reform reform to strengthen market to strengthen market vitalityvitality anand internal d internal momentum for development momentum for development
To develop a high
To develop a high--standard socialist market economy, standard socialist market economy, we should give play to we should give play to
中央党史和文献研究院译
19
the roles of both
the roles of both the government and the market, the government and the market, seeing that seeing that the marketthe market plays plays the the decisive role in the allocation of resources anddecisive role in the allocation of resources and the the governmegovernmentnt better fulfills better fulfills its its role.role.
We will
We will step up efforts tostep up efforts to transform transform governmentgovernment functionsfunctions.. We will do more to build We will do more to build a a highhigh--standard standard market systemmarket system,, carry out a comprehensive carry out a comprehensive pilotpilot reform reform for the for the marketmarket--based allocation of based allocation of production factorsproduction factors, and strive to accelerate the , and strive to accelerate the development of development of a unified domestic marketa unified domestic market. . WWe will deepen reforms to streamline e will deepen reforms to streamline administration and delegate power, improve regulation, and upgrade servicesadministration and delegate power, improve regulation, and upgrade services with a focus on creating with a focus on creating a marketa market--oriented, laworiented, law--based and internationabased and internationallizedized business environmentbusiness environment. We will make sure that at the same time as government . We will make sure that at the same time as government approvalapproval for a certain matter is canceled or delegated to lowerfor a certain matter is canceled or delegated to lower--level authorities, level authorities, corresponding corresponding regulatory regulatory steps are takensteps are taken and and responsibilitiesresponsibilities are assumedare assumed..
We will
We will continue to expand market accesscontinue to expand market access.. ListList--based management will be based management will be fully implemented for matters requiring government approval. fully implemented for matters requiring government approval. We will worWe will work to k to build a digital governmentbuild a digital government and and promotepromote the sharing of government datathe sharing of government data. . WWe will e will continue to reduce various certificacontinue to reduce various certification tion requirementsrequirements and provide more and provide more government services government services on a on a crosscross--provincial basisprovincial basis. We will basically realize . We will basically realize mutual mutual nationwide recognitionnationwide recognition of electronic licenses and of electronic licenses and certificatescertificates to to facilitatefacilitate enterprises with transenterprises with trans--regional operationregional operations, and provide people with greater access s, and provide people with greater access to important services outside of their home to important services outside of their home jurisdictionjurisdiction. We will facilitate . We will facilitate integratedintegrated access to access to government servicesgovernment services, and , and introduce simpler procedures for introduce simpler procedures for the the registration of immovable propertyregistration of immovable property and motor vehicle and motor vehicle iinspectionnspections. s.
We will
We will strengthenstrengthen thethe regulatory responsibilitiesregulatory responsibilities of government and ensure of government and ensure that all competent authorities, relevant departments and local governments fulfill that all competent authorities, relevant departments and local governments fulfill their regulatory responsibilities for matters under their jurisdiction, so as to their regulatory responsibilities for matters under their jurisdiction, so as to preprevent any absence of regulationvent any absence of regulation.. To ensure regulation is effective, we will work To ensure regulation is effective, we will work faster to establish a faster to establish a comprehensive,comprehensive, tiered tiered and multifaceted and multifaceted system to regulate all system to regulate all stagestages,s, from from start to finish, in all sectors. start to finish, in all sectors. WWe will act quickly to improve regulatory e will act quickly to improve regulatory rulerules for key industries, s for key industries, emergingemerging sectors, and sectors with foreign involvement sectors, and sectors with foreign involvement and introduce new measures to make regulation more targeted and more effective. and introduce new measures to make regulation more targeted and more effective.
W
We will further the implementation of policies to e will further the implementation of policies to ensureensure fair competition and fair competition and take stronger actiontake stronger action against monopolies and unfair competitionagainst monopolies and unfair competition to to ensureensure a a wellwell--ordered and fair ordered and fair market environmentmarket environment. .
We will We will promote the common development of promote the common development of enterprises under enterprises under all all forms of ownershipforms of ownership.. We will We will uphold and further uphold and further improve the basic socialist economic systemimprove the basic socialist economic system,, and and work work
中央党史和文献研究院译
20
unswervingly
unswervingly both both to consolidate and develop the public sector and to consolidate and develop the public sector and to to encourage, encourage, support and guide development of the nonsupport and guide development of the non--public sector.public sector.
W
We must have a good understanding of the defining features of capital and the e must have a good understanding of the defining features of capital and the way it works, so as to support way it works, so as to support and guideand guide its its wellwell--regulated and regulated and sound sound developmentdevelopment. . WWe will e will provide equitable and law-based protection to the property rights and independent management rights of enterprises and to the lawful rights and interests of entrepreneurs. By doing so, we will create a favorable environment for enterprises under all forms of ownership to compete and grow together.
W
We will complete the will complete the threee three--year action plan for SOE reformyear action plan for SOE reform, move faster to , move faster to adjust and improve adjust and improve the layout and structure of the statethe layout and structure of the state--owned sectorowned sector,, deepen the deepen the reform reform to introduce to introduce mixed ownership mixed ownership in in SOEs,SOEs, and tighten regulation of and tighten regulation of statestate--owned capital. owned capital. SOEs SOEs will be encouraged towill be encouraged to better play their role in better play their role in supportsupporting and driving ing and driving developmentdevelopment of industrial and supply chains with a focus of industrial and supply chains with a focus on on their their primary primary responsibilities and responsibilities and core core businessbusinesses. es.
We will implement policies and measures to support
We will implement policies and measures to support the development of the the development of the private sector,private sector, and encourage and guide private enterprises in reform and and encourage and guide private enterprises in reform and innovation. We will fosterinnovation. We will foster a a cordial cordial and clean relationship between gand clean relationship between government overnment and businessand business. To promote the . To promote the entrepreneurial spiritentrepreneurial spirit, we will solicit the opinions of , we will solicit the opinions of market entities more when we are designing market entities more when we are designing enterprise-related policies, respect the laws of the market, and help entrepreneurs to devote themselves to creating start-ups and pursuing innovation and to develop their businesses free from undue concern.
We will
We will advanceadvance reforms of the fiscal, taxation, and financial systems.reforms of the fiscal, taxation, and financial systems. We will further We will further reform reform thethe performanceperformance--basedbased budgetbudgetaryary managementmanagement and strengthen and strengthen budgetbudgetary ary coconstraints and transparency. Rnstraints and transparency. Reform eform will be will be carrcarriedied outout in in fiscal systemfiscal systemss below below thethe provincial level. provincial level. We will improve the tax collection and administration system and crack down on tax evasion and fraud in accordance with the law.
We will strengthen and refine financial regulation, further reform the equity structures and corporate governance of small and medium banks, and move faster to deal with nonperforming assets. We will improve the system for supporting debt financing by private enterprises, achieve full implementation of the registration-based IPO system, and promote steady and sound development of the capital market.
4
4. . Further implementing the Further implementing the innovationinnovation--driven developmentdriven development strategy and strategy and strengthening strengthening thethe foundation of foundation of thethe real economyreal economy
中央党史和文献研究院译
21
We need to promote scientific and technological innovation, so as to upgrade
We need to promote scientific and technological innovation, so as to upgrade our industries, eliminate the bottlenecks in supply, and realize highour industries, eliminate the bottlenecks in supply, and realize high--quality quality developmentdevelopment through innovationthrough innovation.
We will
We will raise our raise our capacitycapacity for scientific and technological innovationfor scientific and technological innovation.. We willWe will press ahead with the 10-year action plan on basic research to ensure stable support over the long term, and increase the share of basic research spending in the country’s total R&D expenditures. WWe wille will implement a threeimplement a three--year action plan for year action plan for reforming the science and technology management system, reinforce China’s strategic science and technology capabilities, further develop national laboratories and key national laboratories, and leverage the strengthsand leverage the strengths of of universities, colleges, and universities, colleges, and research research institutesinstitutes. .
We will
We will improve the approval procedures for major science and technology projects and their management, and further reform the assessment and incentive systems for scientific research. We will support local governments in increasing spending on science and technology and encourage innovations with distinctive regional features. Greater efforts will be made to increase people’s scientific knowledge.
We will continue to engage in international scientific and technological cooperation, and step up efforts to build talent centers and innovation hubs of global importance. We will improve institutions and mechanisms for talent development, champion the spirit of our nation’s scientists, provide more support to young researchers, and encourage outstanding people of all types to devote themselves to research and realize their full potential.
We will
We will provide stronger incentives to provide stronger incentives to promotepromote innovation among enteinnovation among enterprisesrprises.. We will We will reinforce the principal position of enterprises in innovation, continue promoting breakthroughs in core technologies in key fieldsin key fields, promote greater , promote greater synergy between industry, academia, research, and application, and facilitate the commercialization and application of advances in science and technology. WWe will strengthen e will strengthen intellectual property rights protection and application.
We will promote the development of venture capital, develop new financial products and services to support scientific and technological development, and upgrade intermediary services for science and technology.
We will enhance the policy on granting additional tax deductions for R&D costs, raising the the deductiondeduction coveragecoverage forfor small and medium scismall and medium sci--tech enterprisestech enterprises from from 7575 percentpercent to 100 percentto 100 percent. We will grant. We will grant tax breaks to enterprises that invest
中央党史和文献研究院译
22
in basic research, and improve our policies on accelerated depreciation of equipment and tools and on and on preferential corporate income preferential corporate income taxtax for for newnew-- and and highhigh--tech enterprisestech enterprises. All these measures amount to a large injection of . All these measures amount to a large injection of government funding to support enterprisesgovernment funding to support enterprises’’ innovation endeavors. innovation endeavors. We We must fully must fully implement all implement all policpolicyy incentives for incentives for innovationinnovation to encourage enterprises to invest to encourage enterprises to invest more more in R&D and thus generate and build up in R&D and thus generate and build up new new drivers of growth. drivers of growth.
We willWe will boost the boost the core competitivenescore competitiveness of manufacturings of manufacturing. . To promote stable To promote stable performance of industry, we will ensure supply of raw materials and key spare performance of industry, we will ensure supply of raw materials and key spare parts, and launch initiatives to have leading enterprises fully play their role in parts, and launch initiatives to have leading enterprises fully play their role in safeguardsafeguarding ing the stabilitythe stability and and securitysecurity ofof industrialindustrial and supply chains. We wand supply chains. We will ill encourage financial institutions to increase mediumencourage financial institutions to increase medium-- and longand long--term lending to the term lending to the manufacturing sector. manufacturing sector.
We will launch a group of industrial foundation reengineering projects, help
We will launch a group of industrial foundation reengineering projects, help upgrade traditional industries, promote smart manufacturing, acceleratupgrade traditional industries, promote smart manufacturing, accelerate the e the development of advanced manufacturing clusters, and launch a national program development of advanced manufacturing clusters, and launch a national program to foster to foster clusters of strategic emerging industriesclusters of strategic emerging industries. We will work to nurture . We will work to nurture specialized and sophisticated enterprises that produce new and unique products specialized and sophisticated enterprises that produce new and unique products and provide themand provide them with more support in terms of funding, personnel, and with more support in terms of funding, personnel, and development of business incubation platforms. We will continue efforts to build development of business incubation platforms. We will continue efforts to build China into a manufacturer of quality and steer Chinese manufacturing toward the China into a manufacturer of quality and steer Chinese manufacturing toward the mediummedium-- and highand high--end. end.
We will encourage
We will encourage development of development of the the digital economydigital economy. . We will strengthen overall We will strengthen overall planning for the Digital China initiative, build more digital information planning for the Digital China initiative, build more digital information infrastructureinfrastructure, develop an integrated national system of big data centers step by , develop an integrated national system of big data centers step by step, and apply 5G technology on a lastep, and apply 5G technology on a larger scale. We will advance digitalization of rger scale. We will advance digitalization of industries, and build smart cities and digital villages. We will accelerate industries, and build smart cities and digital villages. We will accelerate development of development of the Industrial Internetthe Industrial Internet, build up digital industries such as , build up digital industries such as integrated circuitsintegrated circuits and and artificial intelligenceartificial intelligence, and enhan, and enhance Chinace China’’s s technologicaltechnological innovation and supply capacities for key software and hardware. To better innovation and supply capacities for key software and hardware. To better promote economic development and enrich peoplepromote economic development and enrich people’’s lives, we will improve s lives, we will improve governance of the digital economy, develop data markets, tap the potential of data governance of the digital economy, develop data markets, tap the potential of data asas a factor of production, and enhance dataa factor of production, and enhance data--use capacities. use capacities.
5. Expanding domestic demand and promoting coordinated regional
5. Expanding domestic demand and promoting coordinated regional development and new urbanizationdevelopment and new urbanization
To To promotepromote unimpeded flows in the unimpeded flows in the economyeconomy, we will remove all , we will remove all
中央党史和文献研究院译
23
impediments to smooth
impediments to smooth production, distribution, production, distribution, circulationcirculation, and consumption , and consumption and see that domestic demand plays a bigger role in driving economic growth.and see that domestic demand plays a bigger role in driving economic growth.
We will promote the sustained recovery of consumption. We will promote the sustained recovery of consumption. WWe will boost personal e will boost personal incomes through multiple channels, improve thincomes through multiple channels, improve the income distribution system, and e income distribution system, and increase increase peopeopleple’’s spending power. s spending power. WWe will strive for ine will strive for in--depth depth integration of online integration of online and offline consumptionand offline consumption, promote recovery in consumption of consumer services, , promote recovery in consumption of consumer services, and foster and foster new forms and models of consumer spendingnew forms and models of consumer spending. . WWe wie will continue to ll continue to support the purchase of newsupport the purchase of new--energy vehicles, and encourage local governments to energy vehicles, and encourage local governments to promote spending on green and smart home appliances in rural areas as well as promote spending on green and smart home appliances in rural areas as well as the the replacreplacement ofement of old home appliancesold home appliances. .
W
We will step up the construction of suppore will step up the construction of supporting facilities for community elderly ting facilities for community elderly and child care, and and child care, and increaseincrease support for such projects in the aspects of planning, support for such projects in the aspects of planning, land use and building use. Domestic services will be upgraded and expanded. land use and building use. Domestic services will be upgraded and expanded. WWe e will strengthen countywill strengthen county--level level commercialcommercial systems and devesystems and develop elop e--commerce and commerce and express delivery services in rural areas. We will improve the quality of products express delivery services in rural areas. We will improve the quality of products and services, better protect the rights and interests of consumers, and services, better protect the rights and interests of consumers, ensureensure public public demand is met, and encourage people to spend.demand is met, and encourage people to spend.
We will increase effectiveWe will increase effective investment. investment. In line with major national strategies and In line with major national strategies and the 14th Fivethe 14th Five--Year Plan, we will make proactive investments in infrastructure as Year Plan, we will make proactive investments in infrastructure as appropriateappropriate. We will construct . We will construct major water conservancy projectsmajor water conservancy projects, , integrated integrated multidimensional transportationmultidimensional transportation networks and important energy bases and networks and important energy bases and facilities. The upgrading of urban pipelines, including those for gas and water facilities. The upgrading of urban pipelines, including those for gas and water supply as well as sewage, will be accelerated. Fsupply as well as sewage, will be accelerated. Flood prevention and drainage lood prevention and drainage facilitiesfacilities will be improved, and the building of will be improved, and the building of undergrouunderground utility tunnelsnd utility tunnels will will continue. continue.
I
Investment from the central government budgetnvestment from the central government budget will reach 640 billion yuan will reach 640 billion yuan this year.this year. The government will make improving the peopleThe government will make improving the people’’s wellbeing an s wellbeing an investment priority and work harder to shore up weak links in areas that arinvestment priority and work harder to shore up weak links in areas that are e important to peopleimportant to people’’s lives. We will s lives. We will deependeepen reform of the investment approval reform of the investment approval systemsystem, ensure , ensure the provision of land, energy and other factorsthe provision of land, energy and other factors of production,of production, and and keep keep energy consumption energy consumption of of major national projectsmajor national projects under separate management. under separate management. We will also impWe will also improve the rove the investmentinvestment mix and remove impediments to investment mix and remove impediments to investment so as to fully leverage its critical role. so as to fully leverage its critical role.
We will promoteWe will promote balanced and coordinated development among regions. balanced and coordinated development among regions. We will fully We will fully iimplementmplement all all major regional major regional development development strategiesstrategies andand the strategy for the strategy for
中央党史和文献研究院译
24
coordinated regional development
coordinated regional development.. We will promote coordinated development of We will promote coordinated development of the Beijingthe Beijing--TianjinTianjin--Hebei region, development of the Yangtze Economic Belt, Hebei region, development of the Yangtze Economic Belt, development of the Guangdongdevelopment of the Guangdong--Hong KongHong Kong--Macao Greater Bay Area, integrated Macao Greater Bay Area, integrated development development of the Yangtze River Delta, and ecological conservation and of the Yangtze River Delta, and ecological conservation and highhigh--quality development in the Yellow River basin. We will advance the quality development in the Yellow River basin. We will advance the construction of Xiongan New Area according to high standards and quality construction of Xiongan New Area according to high standards and quality requirements and support development of requirements and support development of Beijing Beijing mmununicipal icipal aadministrative dministrative ccenterenter. .
We will usher in a new phase of large
We will usher in a new phase of large--scale development scale development in thein the western region, western region, promote breakthroughs promote breakthroughs in in the revitalization of the revitalization of the the northeast, northeast, spur highspur high--quality quality developmentdevelopment of the central regionof the central region, and encourage the eastern regio, and encourage the eastern region to accelerate n to accelerate its pace of its pace of modernization. modernization. We will support phased transWe will support phased trans--regional relocation of regional relocation of industries as well as regional cooperation, and also support old revolutionary base industries as well as regional cooperation, and also support old revolutionary base areas, ethnic minorityareas, ethnic minority areas, and border areas in accelerating development. Wareas, and border areas in accelerating development. We will e will develop the maritime economy and build China into a strong maritime country.develop the maritime economy and build China into a strong maritime country.
Major economically developed provinces should leverage their strength to play
Major economically developed provinces should leverage their strength to play a bigger role in driving development of the whole country. Regions experiencing a bigger role in driving development of the whole country. Regions experiencing economic difficulty should make full use of state support policies to tap their economic difficulty should make full use of state support policies to tap their potential and stimpotential and stimulate economic recovery. ulate economic recovery.
We will improve new We will improve new urbanizationurbanization initiatives. initiatives. WWe will proceed with urban e will proceed with urban renewal in a wellrenewal in a well--conceived way. We will step up construction of public utilities conceived way. We will step up construction of public utilities and bolster capacities to prevent and mitigate natural disasters; identify and and bolster capacities to prevent and mitigate natural disasters; identify and address safety hazards in old buildings and facilities; renovate anotaddress safety hazards in old buildings and facilities; renovate another group of her group of old residential communities in urban areas and support the installation of elevators old residential communities in urban areas and support the installation of elevators in old residential buildings; and promote the development of in old residential buildings; and promote the development of barrierbarrier--free free environmentenvironments and renovation of public facilities for the convenience of senior s and renovation of public facilities for the convenience of senior citizcitizens. ens.
W
We will improve the systems for providing basic public services to people in e will improve the systems for providing basic public services to people in places of their permanent residence and places of their permanent residence and strengthenstrengthen infrastructure in county seats. infrastructure in county seats. SSteady steps will be taken to develop city clusters and metropolitan areas and to teady steps will be taken to develop city clusters and metropolitan areas and to promote promote coordinated development of cities of different sizes and small towns. We coordinated development of cities of different sizes and small towns. We will promote will promote thethe development of the Chengdudevelopment of the Chengdu--Chongqing economic zone. Strict Chongqing economic zone. Strict standards will be applied in the restandards will be applied in the re--designation of counties as cities or city districts. designation of counties as cities or city districts.
In the course of
In the course of planning and construction in urban and rural areas, we will planning and construction in urban and rural areas, we will protect and keep alive our historical and cultural heritage and promote efficient protect and keep alive our historical and cultural heritage and promote efficient and intensive use of land. We will and intensive use of land. We will advance advance a a newnew,, peoplepeople--centered centered type oftype of
中央党史和文献研究院译
25
urbanization
urbanization to to ensureensure that life becomesthat life becomes more and more fulfilling for our people. more and more fulfilling for our people.
6.
6. BBoosting agricultural production and promotoosting agricultural production and promoting alling all--aroundaround rural rural revitalizationrevitalization
We will refine and strengthen
We will refine and strengthen policies in support of agriculture, continue policies in support of agriculture, continue promoting development in areas lifted out of poverty, promoting development in areas lifted out of poverty, ensure ensure good harvestsgood harvests,, and and promote promote growth in rural incomes.growth in rural incomes.
We will step up efforts to ensure stable production and We will step up efforts to ensure stable production and sufficientsufficient supply of grain and supply of grain and other important agricultural products.other important agricultural products. We will keep total grain acreage at a stable We will keep total grain acreage at a stable level, level, refine the mix of refine the mix of grain crops, grain crops, strengthen management over the late seeding strengthen management over the late seeding of wheat on summerof wheat on summer--grain farmland, and grain farmland, and increase increase the production of soybeans and the production of soybeans and other oilother oilseedseed crops. We will crops. We will raise raise the minimum purchase pricethe minimum purchase pricess of rice and wheatof rice and wheat as appropriateas appropriate. To ensure . To ensure reasonable rereasonable returns for grain growers and turns for grain growers and incentivize incentivize major grainmajor grain--producing areas, we will producing areas, we will ensure ensure the provision of the provision of agricultural supplies agricultural supplies such as chemical fertilizers at stable pricesuch as chemical fertilizers at stable pricess, continue to , continue to provideprovide agricultural supply agricultural supply subsidies to grain growers, and subsidies to grain growers, and step up supporstep up support for t for major grainmajor grain--producing areas. producing areas.
To
To ensureensure thethe area of farmland remains above the redline of area of farmland remains above the redline of 120 million 120 million hectares, we will designate a sufficient amount of good land as permanent basic hectares, we will designate a sufficient amount of good land as permanent basic cropland, and cropland, and firmfirmly stop ly stop any attempts to use cropland for any purpose other than any attempts to use cropland for any purpose other than agriculture and specifically grain production. We will step up efforts to upgrade agriculture and specifically grain production. We will step up efforts to upgrade lowlow-- and mediumand medium--yield cropland, yield cropland, increase the area of highincrease the area of high--standard cropland by standard cropland by 6.67 million hectares6.67 million hectares, and , and construct orconstruct or upgrade upgrade a number of a number of medium and medium and large large irrigated areas.irrigated areas. We will intensify conservation of We will intensify conservation of chernozem soilchernozem soil, make , make comprehensive use of comprehensive use of salinesaline--alkali landalkali lands, and carry out the third national survey of s, and carry out the third national survey of soils. Support soils. Support will bewill be given to watergiven to water--efficient agriculture aefficient agriculture and dry farming in the nd dry farming in the Yellow River basin. Yellow River basin.
We will revitalize the seed industry at a faster pace, redouble efforts to
We will revitalize the seed industry at a faster pace, redouble efforts to developdevelop and apply scientific and technological breakthroughs in agriculture, and upgrade and apply scientific and technological breakthroughs in agriculture, and upgrade agricultural machinery and equipment. We will enhagricultural machinery and equipment. We will enhance our capacity to ance our capacity to prevent prevent and controland control meteorologicalmeteorological disastersdisasters affectaffecting agriculture as well asing agriculture as well as animal and animal and plant plant diseases. We will diseases. We will see that see that hog production hog production is better regulated andis better regulated and ensure the ensure the production and supply of livestock, poultry and aquaproduction and supply of livestock, poultry and aquatic tic products and vegetables. products and vegetables. Development of modern protected Development of modern protected agricultureagriculture will be accelerated. We will provide will be accelerated. We will provide support to boost cotton and sugarcane farming. support to boost cotton and sugarcane farming.
All local
All local governmentsgovernments shoulder shoulder responsibility for safeguardingresponsibility for safeguarding ChinaChina’s food ’s food security. Those localitiessecurity. Those localities that rely on grain from other areas must do better in that rely on grain from other areas must do better in
中央党史和文献研究院译
26
keep
keepinging thetheirir grain grain output output stable. Everyone must work together to ensure that stable. Everyone must work together to ensure that the the countrycountry’’s s ““rice bagrice bag”” and and ““vegetable basketvegetable basket”” are wellare well--filled, and filled, and that we have a that we have a secure food supply for more thansecure food supply for more than 1.4 billion Chinese people.1.4 billion Chinese people.
We will fully consolidate and build on our achievements in poverty elimination.We will fully consolidate and build on our achievements in poverty elimination. We We will implement better will implement better monitoring and assistance mechanisms to prevent people monitoring and assistance mechanisms to prevent people from slipping back into poverty and from slipping back into poverty and seesee thatthat people people do not do not return return to to impoverishment impoverishment in large numberin large numbers. We will support s. We will support areas that have been lifted out areas that have been lifted out of poverty in developing distinctive local of poverty in developing distinctive local businessebusinesses, and bolster labor s, and bolster labor collaboration and vocational skills training to help people who collaboration and vocational skills training to help people who are no longer in are no longer in poverty poverty steadily isteadily increase their ncrease their incomes. incomes.
W
Wee will will enhance the selfenhance the self--development capacitdevelopment capacityy of of areas that are no longer in areas that are no longer in povertypoverty. Stronger support m. Stronger support measures easures will be adopted will be adopted for key counties receiving for key counties receiving assistance for rural revitalizationassistance for rural revitalization; ; followfollow--up support will be given to up support will be given to peoplepeople who who have been relocated from inhospitable areashave been relocated from inhospitable areas; ; collaboration between eastern and collaboration between eastern and western regionswestern regions and targeand targeted and nongovernmental ted and nongovernmental assistance assistance effortsefforts will be will be intensified; intensified; and and the “10,000 private enterprises revitalizing 10,000 villages” the “10,000 private enterprises revitalizing 10,000 villages” initiative initiative will be launchedwill be launched..
We will steadily and prudently advance rural reform and development.We will steadily and prudently advance rural reform and development. We will run We will run trials on extending trials on extending the the rural land contracts rural land contracts of whole counties of whole counties by another 30 years by another 30 years on the expiration of secondon the expiration of second--round contracts. We will deepen the reformround contracts. We will deepen the reform of of supply supply and marketing cooperatives, collective property rights, collective forest tenure, and marketing cooperatives, collective property rights, collective forest tenure, state forestry areas and farms, and state farms. state forestry areas and farms, and state farms. We will We will activelyactively develop new develop new collective economies in rural areas. We will improve financial services in rural collective economies in rural areas. We will improve financial services in rural areaareas to accelerate ts to accelerate the development ofhe development of thethe rural rural business business ssectorector. . We will also We will also expand county economies. expand county economies.
We will
We will apply apply strictstrict standards tostandards to the revocation and amalgamation of villages, the revocation and amalgamation of villages, protect protect both both traditional villages and traditional villages and the features of our countrysidethe features of our countryside, and , and eenhance nhance thethe guiding role of rural development plansguiding role of rural development plans.. We will We will launch rural initiatives to launch rural initiatives to improve improve infrastructureinfrastructure,, such as water, such as water, electricityelectricity and and gas supplgas supplieies, roadss, roads,, and mail and mail and and communications communications serviceservices,s, andand upgrade upgrade rural rural toilettoilets ands and sewage and refuse sewage and refuse treatment facilities based on local conditions. treatment facilities based on local conditions. We will further cultivate civic virtue We will further cultivate civic virtue in villages and towns. in villages and towns. We will We will work harder to clear wage arrears owed to rural work harder to clear wage arrears owed to rural migrant workersmigrant workers,, support support rural migrant workers in finding jobs rural migrant workers in finding jobs and and starstarting ting businesses, andbusinesses, and do everything possible to do everything possible to create more create more ways for rural people to ways for rural people to increase increase their their incomes from nonagricultural workincomes from nonagricultural work..
中央党史和文献研究院译
27
7.
7. PursuingPursuing highhigherer--standard opening up and promoting stable standard opening up and promoting stable growth ofgrowth of foreign trade and investmentforeign trade and investment
We will m
We will makakee full use of international and domestic markets and resources,full use of international and domestic markets and resources, continue to expand international economic cooperation and trade, and push for continue to expand international economic cooperation and trade, and push for inin--depth reform and highdepth reform and high--quality development by promoting highquality development by promoting high--standard standard opening upopening up..
We will adopt a package
We will adopt a package ofof stepsteps to stabilize foreign trade.s to stabilize foreign trade. We will expand the We will expand the coverage of export credit insurance forcoverage of export credit insurance for micro,micro, small and medium foreign trade small and medium foreign trade firms, firms, strengthen export creditstrengthen export credit supportsupport, refine, refine foreign exchange services, foreign exchange services, expedite expedite the process for export rebatesthe process for export rebates, and help, and help foreforeign trade enterprises ign trade enterprises receivereceive orders orders and and maintainmaintain production. We will move faster production. We will move faster to to develop new forms and models develop new forms and models of foreign trade, give full play to of foreign trade, give full play to the role of the role of crosscross--border eborder e--commerce, commerce, and and support support the establishment of the establishment of a number of a number of overseas warehouses. overseas warehouses.
We
We will will actively actively increase imports of quality products and services. increase imports of quality products and services. WWe will e will explore new ways to developexplore new ways to develop trade in services and digital tradetrade in services and digital trade, and, and implement a implement a negative list for crossnegative list for cross--border trade in services. The reform to simplify customs border trade in services. The reform to simplify customs clearance will be deepened, and clearance will be deepened, and the building of an the building of an international logistic services international logistic services system system will be will be accelerated to help lower costs and raise efficiency in foreign accelerated to help lower costs and raise efficiency in foreign tradetrade..
We will make greater use
We will make greater use of foreign investment.of foreign investment. We will We will see thatsee that the negative list the negative list for foreign investment for foreign investment is fully observed is fully observed and ensure national treatment for all and ensure national treatment for all foreignforeign--invested enterprises. We will encourage foreigninvested enterprises. We will encourage foreign--invested enterprises to invested enterprises to move inmove into a broader range of sectors, and support more foreign investment in to a broader range of sectors, and support more foreign investment in mediummedium-- and highand high--end manufacturing, R&D, and modern services, as well asend manufacturing, R&D, and modern services, as well as inin the centralthe central,, western western and northeastern and northeastern regions. We will improve servicesregions. We will improve services for for promoting foreign investmentpromoting foreign investment and and aaccelerate the launching ofccelerate the launching of major major foreignforeign--funded projects. funded projects.
We will take
We will take solidsolid stepsteps to develop pilot free trade zones and the Hainan Free s to develop pilot free trade zones and the Hainan Free Trade Port, promote reform and innovation in economic development zones, Trade Port, promote reform and innovation in economic development zones, boostboost the development of integrated bonded arthe development of integrated bonded areaseas, and , and launch launch more trials more trials on on the the extensive extensive openingopening of the service sectorof the service sector. . TThe vast, open Chinese market is he vast, open Chinese market is sure to sure to provide even greater provide even greater business business opportunities for foreign enterprises in China. opportunities for foreign enterprises in China.
We will promote high
We will promote high--quality cooperationquality cooperation under the Belt and Road Initiativeunder the Belt and Road Initiative.. We We remain committed to remain committed to the principle of achieving shared growth through the principle of achieving shared growth through consultation and collaborationconsultation and collaboration. . We will, oWe will, on the basis of consolidating cooperation n the basis of consolidating cooperation onon enhancing enhancing connectivity, move steadily to open up new connectivity, move steadily to open up new areaareas ofs of cooperation. cooperation.
中央党史和文献研究院译
28
New land
New land--sea transit routes for the western region will be further developed. We sea transit routes for the western region will be further developed. We will will carry outcarry out outbound investment outbound investment and and international cooperation in ainternational cooperation in a wellwell--regulatedregulated way, and way, and effectivelyeffectively guard against overseas risks. guard against overseas risks.
We will
We will deependeepen multilateral and multilateral and bilateral economic and trade cooperation.bilateral economic and trade cooperation. The The Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) has created the largest free Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) has created the largest free trade zone in the world. We will encourage enterprises to trade zone in the world. We will encourage enterprises to make good make good use use of of preferential tariff treatment, cumulatpreferential tariff treatment, cumulation of origin, and other rules under the RCEPion of origin, and other rules under the RCEP frameworkframework to expand cooperation on trade and investment. We will work to to expand cooperation on trade and investment. We will work to negotiate and negotiate and conclude conclude highhigh--standard standard free trade agreements with more countries free trade agreements with more countries and regions. We and regions. We will remainwill remain firmfirm inin upholdupholdinging the multilatthe multilateral trade regime anderal trade regime and willwill participate actively in participate actively in the the reform of the Wreform of the World orld TTrade rade OOrganizationrganization. China . China is is readyready to work with allto work with all countries to countries to enhance mutually beneficial cooperation and enhance mutually beneficial cooperation and achieve winachieve win--win outcomes for allwin outcomes for all. .
8. Continuing to Improve the Environm
8. Continuing to Improve the Environment and Promoting Green and ent and Promoting Green and LowLow--Carbon Development Carbon Development
We will work harder to
We will work harder to address address pollution andpollution and protect and restore ecosystems. protect and restore ecosystems. We willWe will promotpromotee development development while also while also reducreducinging emissions, and emissions, and ensure ensure greater greater harmony between humanity and nature. harmony between humanity and nature.
We will
We will improveimprove the environmentthe environment with a with a holisticholistic approachapproach.. We will We will work to make work to make solid solid gainsgains in the battle against pollutionin the battle against pollution. . We will take coordinated steps to further We will take coordinated steps to further control multiple control multiple atmosphericatmospheric pollutants and treat them through coordination pollutants and treat them through coordination among regions. among regions. We willWe will take stronger action to treat pollution in major rivers, lakes, take stronger action to treat pollution in major rivers, lakes, and bays, and sustain our progress on preventing and controlling soil pollution. and bays, and sustain our progress on preventing and controlling soil pollution. We will We will step up the treatment of solid waste and new pollutantsstep up the treatment of solid waste and new pollutants and implement and implement measures tomeasures to sort refuse, sort refuse, reduce reduce waste waste and and boost boost recyclrecyclinging. . We will improve We will improve ppolicies to support olicies to support environmental protection industriesenvironmental protection industries inin conserving water and conserving water and energyenergy and recycling waste and used materialsand recycling waste and used materials. .
We will
We will adopt a more adopt a more regionregion--specific approach to environmental management, specific approach to environmental management, launch greening programs launch greening programs in a wellin a well--conceived mannerconceived manner, and , and conduct in a conduct in a coordinated way coordinated way the conservation of mountain, river, forest, farmland, lake, the conservation of mountain, river, forest, farmland, lake, grassland, and desert ecosystems. We will protect biodigrassland, and desert ecosystems. We will protect biodiversity and advance the versity and advance the development of the national parkdevelopment of the national park--based nature reserve system. based nature reserve system. WithWith these efforts, these efforts, we will make our common home greener and more beautiful. we will make our common home greener and more beautiful.
We will take wellWe will take well--ordered steps to achieve peak carbon emissions and carbon neutrality.ordered steps to achieve peak carbon emissions and carbon neutrality. TheThe action plan for peaking carbon emissions will be put into effect. To action plan for peaking carbon emissions will be put into effect. To advanceadvance
中央党史和文献研究院译
29
C
Chhinaina’’s energy s energy revolutionrevolution and ensure energy supply, we will, based on our and ensure energy supply, we will, based on our resource endowment, push forward the transformation toward resource endowment, push forward the transformation toward lowlow--carbon carbon developmentdevelopment,, in accordance with ovin accordance with overall planning and the principle of establishing erall planning and the principle of establishing the new before the new before abolishing abolishing the old. the old. WWe e will will work work harder harder to makto makee coal usage cleaner coal usage cleaner and more efficientand more efficient, while reducing the use of coal and replacing it with alternative , while reducing the use of coal and replacing it with alternative energy sources in a wellenergy sources in a well--ordered way. Weordered way. We will work to upgrade coalwill work to upgrade coal--fired power fired power plants to conserve resources, reduce carbon emissions, plants to conserve resources, reduce carbon emissions, makemake operations more operations more flexible, and upgrade heating facilitiesflexible, and upgrade heating facilities. .
We will advance the planning and construction of large
We will advance the planning and construction of large--scale wind scale wind and and photovoltaic power basesphotovoltaic power bases witwith supporting power sources that are adjustableh supporting power sources that are adjustable, , develop develop pumpedpumped--storage hydroelectric plantsstorage hydroelectric plants,, and and boostboost the capacity of power the capacity of power grids to absorb electricity generated from renewable energy sources. grids to absorb electricity generated from renewable energy sources. We will We will support the development of biomass energy. We will prosupport the development of biomass energy. We will promote R&D and mote R&D and application of green and lowapplication of green and low--carbon technology, and develop green manufacturing carbon technology, and develop green manufacturing and services. We will encourage and services. We will encourage thethe steel, steel, nonnon--ferrous metals,ferrous metals, petrochemicalspetrochemicals, , chemicalschemicals and building materialsand building materials industries to enhance energy conservation and industries to enhance energy conservation and reduce carbon emissions, and improve energy efficiency in transportation and reduce carbon emissions, and improve energy efficiency in transportation and buildings. buildings.
We are resolved to stop the blind development of
We are resolved to stop the blind development of energyenergy--intensive projects intensive projects with high emissionswith high emissions and backward production caand backward production capacity. We will enhance the pacity. We will enhance the carbon absorption capacity of our ecosystems. carbon absorption capacity of our ecosystems. WWe will transition from assessing e will transition from assessing the total amount and intensity of energy consumption the total amount and intensity of energy consumption to assessing to assessing the total the total amount and intensity of amount and intensity of carbon carbon emissionsemissions, improve , improve policypolicy incentiveincentives for s for reducing reducing pollution and carbon emissions pollution and carbon emissions and and policy policy constraintconstraints on such emissions, develop s on such emissions, develop greengreen finance, and promote faster development of finance, and promote faster development of green green and lowand low--carbon carbon ways of ways of working and living.working and living.
9.
9. EnsuringEnsuring and improving and improving the the peoplepeople’’s wellbeings wellbeing andand promoting better and promoting better and new ways of conducting new ways of conducting social governancesocial governance
We will do everything within our capacityWe will do everything within our capacity to keep enhancing public services to keep enhancing public services and resolve issues that are of common concern to the people. and resolve issues that are of common concern to the people.
We will We will improve the fairness and quality of improve the fairness and quality of education.education. We will We will ensureensure that that education performs its fundamental mission of fostering virtue. We will promote education performs its fundamental mission of fostering virtue. We will promote highhigh--quality, wellquality, well--balanced development and urbanbalanced development and urban--rural integrationrural integration of of compulsory education. We will allocate educational resources according to the size compulsory education. We will allocate educational resources according to the size oof residential population, see that schoolf residential population, see that school--age children can enroll in nearby schools, age children can enroll in nearby schools,
中央党史和文献研究院译
30
and ensure that all children of rural migrant workers in cities have access to
and ensure that all children of rural migrant workers in cities have access to education. We will ensure that compulsory education teachers education. We will ensure that compulsory education teachers receivereceive theirtheir pay pay packages in fpackages in full and strengthen targeted training programs, onull and strengthen targeted training programs, on--thethe--job training, job training, and salary guarantees for rural teachers. We will continue our efforts to reduce the and salary guarantees for rural teachers. We will continue our efforts to reduce the burden on students in compulsory education. burden on students in compulsory education.
We will increase resources for public
We will increase resources for public--interest preschool einterest preschool education via multiple ducation via multiple channels and promote the channels and promote the developmentdevelopment of regular county high schools. We will of regular county high schools. We will provide quality special needs education, continuing education, and specialized provide quality special needs education, continuing education, and specialized education and support and regulate the development of private schools. education and support and regulate the development of private schools. WWe wille will promote general and promote general and proficientproficient use of use of standard spoken and written Chinesestandard spoken and written Chinese. To . To develop modern vocational education, we will upgrade vocational schools, refine develop modern vocational education, we will upgrade vocational schools, refine the mechanism for integrating vocational education with industry, and enhance the mechanism for integrating vocational education with industry, and enhance the adaptability ofthe adaptability of vocational education. vocational education.
We will develop higher education to its full potential and optimize its layout. We will develop higher education to its full potential and optimize its layout. We will We will promotepromote the the developmentdevelopment of worldof world--class universities and academic class universities and academic disciplines on a categorized basis, disciplines on a categorized basis, movemove faster to train professionals we are badly faster to train professionals we are badly lacking in the fields of science, engineering, lacking in the fields of science, engineering, agricultureagriculture and medicine, and support and medicine, and support the development of the development of higherhigher education in central and western regions. Universities education in central and western regions. Universities and colleges will continue to enroll greater nand colleges will continue to enroll greater numbers of students from central and umbers of students from central and western regions and rural areas. western regions and rural areas.
Steps will be taken to strengthen professional ethics among teachers. A
Steps will be taken to strengthen professional ethics among teachers. A mechanism will be established whereby our schools, families and whole society mechanism will be established whereby our schools, families and whole society work together to advance education. work together to advance education. We will promote online education, improve We will promote online education, improve the the lifellifelong learning system, and encourage public respect for teachers and public ong learning system, and encourage public respect for teachers and public support for education. support for education.
There are 290 million students in schools and universities in China. We must
There are 290 million students in schools and universities in China. We must ensure that education, which iensure that education, which is important to millions of families and the future of s important to millions of families and the future of our nation, is wellour nation, is well--run. run.
We will We will improve medical and health servicesimprove medical and health services.. Government subsidies for basic Government subsidies for basic medical medical insuranceinsurance for rural and nonfor rural and non--working urban residents will be increased by working urban residents will be increased by an average of 30 yan average of 30 yuan per person, and subsidies for basic public health services uan per person, and subsidies for basic public health services will be increased by an average of 5 yuan per person. The unified management of will be increased by an average of 5 yuan per person. The unified management of basic medical insurance funds will be advanced at the provincial basic medical insurance funds will be advanced at the provincial levellevel. We will . We will carry out bulk government purchascarry out bulk government purchases for more medicines and highes for more medicines and high--value medical value medical
中央党史和文献研究院译
31
consumables and ensure both the production and supply of these items.
consumables and ensure both the production and supply of these items.
We will intensify supervision over the quality and safety of drugs and vaccines. We will intensify supervision over the quality and safety of drugs and vaccines. Reform of medical insurance payments under the medical insReform of medical insurance payments under the medical insurance scheme will urance scheme will be deepened, and medical insurance funds will be placed under strict oversight. be deepened, and medical insurance funds will be placed under strict oversight. We will improve the policy on directly settling medical expenses incurred outside We will improve the policy on directly settling medical expenses incurred outside of a patientof a patient’’s home province, and ensure that the list of medicines covereds home province, and ensure that the list of medicines covered by by medical insurance is largely consistent nationwide. medical insurance is largely consistent nationwide.
Taking prevention as a priority, we will strengthen health education and Taking prevention as a priority, we will strengthen health education and managementmanagement and and advanceadvance the Healthy China initiative. the Healthy China initiative. WWe will steadily enhance e will steadily enhance services for the prevention and treatment of chservices for the prevention and treatment of chronic illnesses such as ronic illnesses such as cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases and cancer as well as infectious cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases and cancer as well as infectious diseases such as tuberculosis and hepatitis. We will also diseases such as tuberculosis and hepatitis. We will also strengthenstrengthen research of research of rare rare diseasesdiseases and better ensure and better ensure the supply of medicines forthe supply of medicines for these. We willthese. We will improve the improve the disease prevention and control network, increase collaboration between disease disease prevention and control network, increase collaboration between disease control agencies and hospitals, make greater efforts to train public health personnel, control agencies and hospitals, make greater efforts to train public health personnel, and improve our capabilities for monitoringand improve our capabilities for monitoring major epidemics and conducting eamajor epidemics and conducting early rly warning, epidemiological investigation and tracing, and emergency response. warning, epidemiological investigation and tracing, and emergency response.
We will promote the comprehensive reform and highWe will promote the comprehensive reform and high--quality development of quality development of public hospitals, see that the charges collected by medical institutions public hospitals, see that the charges collected by medical institutions andand the the services they offer services they offer are wellare well--regulated, continue to assist medical institutions hit by regulated, continue to assist medical institutions hit by CovidCovid--19, and shore up weak links in services such as 19, and shore up weak links in services such as maternal and child maternal and child healthcarehealthcare, pediatrics, mental health and medical care for the elderly. We will , pediatrics, mental health and medical care for the elderly. We will promote development of both traditiopromote development of both traditional Chinese medicine nal Chinese medicine andand Western medicine, Western medicine, and give greater support to initiatives for vitalizing and developing traditional and give greater support to initiatives for vitalizing and developing traditional Chinese medicine and advance its allChinese medicine and advance its all--around reform. We will implement and around reform. We will implement and refine policies for ensuring salary payments and providinrefine policies for ensuring salary payments and providing incentives for rural g incentives for rural doctors. doctors.
We will continue to promote tiered diagnosis and treatment and sound We will continue to promote tiered diagnosis and treatment and sound medical treatment procedures, accelerate the development of regional medical medical treatment procedures, accelerate the development of regional medical centers at the national and provincial levels, channel more highcenters at the national and provincial levels, channel more high--quality medical quality medical resources to the prefecture aresources to the prefecture and county levels, enhance communitynd county levels, enhance community--level disease level disease prevention and treatment capacities, and prevention and treatment capacities, and ensureensure that people can access that people can access higherhigher--quality medical and health services close to home. quality medical and health services close to home.
We will We will improve social security and social servicesimprove social security and social services.. We will work steadily We will work steadily toward toward
中央党史和文献研究院译
32
national unified management of basic old
national unified management of basic old--age insurance funds age insurance funds for enterprise for enterprise employeesemployees, , appropriatelyappropriately raise the basic pensions for retirees and basic oldraise the basic pensions for retirees and basic old--age age benefits for rural and nonbenefits for rural and non--working urban residents, and ensure that these working urban residents, and ensure that these paymentpayments are made on time and in full. s are made on time and in full. WWe will continue to regulate e will continue to regulate development development of thirdof third--pillarpillar pensionpension planplanss. We will move faster to promote unified management . We will move faster to promote unified management of workersof workers’’ compensation funds and unemployment insurance funds at the compensation funds and unemployment insurance funds at the provincial level. We will see tprovincial level. We will see that service members and their families, exhat service members and their families, ex--service service members, and other entitled groups receive the benefits and subsidies they are members, and other entitled groups receive the benefits and subsidies they are entitled to.entitled to.
We will proactively respond to population aging and worker faster to build a We will proactively respond to population aging and worker faster to build a system of domestic, community and isystem of domestic, community and institutional elderly care services to meet nstitutional elderly care services to meet different medical and health care needs. We will improve elderly care in urban and different medical and health care needs. We will improve elderly care in urban and rural areas, support private entities in providing elderly care services such as day rural areas, support private entities in providing elderly care services such as day care, care, assistanceassistance with meals and cleaning, andwith meals and cleaning, and rehabilitation care, steadily advance rehabilitation care, steadily advance trials for longtrials for long--term care insurance schemes, and encourage mutualterm care insurance schemes, and encourage mutual--assistance assistance elderly care in rural areas. We will explore new ways of developing elderly care in rural areas. We will explore new ways of developing senior citizensenior citizen education, and promote higheducation, and promote high--quality development of both equality development of both elderly care programs lderly care programs and the elderly care sector. and the elderly care sector.
We will improve the supporting measures for the threeWe will improve the supporting measures for the three--child policy, make care child policy, make care expenses for children under three part of the special additional deductions for expenses for children under three part of the special additional deductions for individual income tax, and develop publicindividual income tax, and develop public--inteinterest childcare services through rest childcare services through multiple channels, to reduce the costs of giving multiple channels, to reduce the costs of giving birthbirth and raising and educating and raising and educating children. We will step up protection of minors and improve mental health children. We will step up protection of minors and improve mental health educationeducation. We will strengthen disability prevention, and provide bette. We will strengthen disability prevention, and provide better r rehabilitation services for people with disabilities. We will do more to meet the rehabilitation services for people with disabilities. We will do more to meet the peoplepeople’’s basic needs, strengthen assistance to people in difficulty, and ensure that s basic needs, strengthen assistance to people in difficulty, and ensure that our social safety net provides support and our social safety net provides support and assistanceassistance to everyone who needs it. to everyone who needs it.
We wiWe will ll continue to meet continue to meet people’people’s housing needss housing needs.. Guided by the principle that Guided by the principle that houses are for living in, not for speculation, we will explore new models for houses are for living in, not for speculation, we will explore new models for housing development and encourage both housing rentals and purchases. We will housing development and encourage both housing rentals and purchases. We will move faster to develop the longmove faster to develop the long--term rental market, promote the construterm rental market, promote the construction of ction of governmentgovernment--subsidized housing, and support the commodity housing market in subsidized housing, and support the commodity housing market in better meeting the reasonable needs of homebuyers. We will keep land costs, better meeting the reasonable needs of homebuyers. We will keep land costs, housinghousing prices and prices and marketmarket expectations stable, and adopt cityexpectations stable, and adopt city--specific measures to specific measures to
中央党史和文献研究院译
33
facilitate po
facilitate positive circulation and sound sitive circulation and sound developmentdevelopment in the real estate sector. in the real estate sector.
We will We will enrich enrich people’people’s intellectual and cultural lives. s intellectual and cultural lives. We will promote and observe We will promote and observe the core socialist values and carry out public initiatives to promote cultural and the core socialist values and carry out public initiatives to promote cultural and ethical advancemenethical advancement. We will see that the press and publishing, radio, film and t. We will see that the press and publishing, radio, film and television, literature and art, philosophy, social sciences, and archiving all flourish. television, literature and art, philosophy, social sciences, and archiving all flourish. A A love of reading will love of reading will continue to continue to be fostered among our peoplebe fostered among our people. We will develop . We will develop new ways to strengthen tnew ways to strengthen the development of online content and improve he development of online content and improve cyberspace governance. cyberspace governance.
We will develop digital public cultural services, improve the layout of cultural We will develop digital public cultural services, improve the layout of cultural facilities and promote the sharing of cultural resources at the facilities and promote the sharing of cultural resources at the communitycommunity level, level, increase the supply of qincrease the supply of quality cultural products and services, and support the uality cultural products and services, and support the developmentdevelopment of cultural industries. We will carry forward fine traditional Chinese of cultural industries. We will carry forward fine traditional Chinese culture, protect and use cultural artifacts and ancient manuscripts more culture, protect and use cultural artifacts and ancient manuscripts more effectivelyeffectively, , better preserve and pass on our better preserve and pass on our intangible cultural heritage, and build national intangible cultural heritage, and build national cultural parks. cultural parks.
We will make the most of the legacy of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics and
We will make the most of the legacy of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics and Paralympics, and Paralympics, and promotepromote the development of ice and snow sports and the winter the development of ice and snow sports and the winter economy. We will see that more sporeconomy. We will see that more sports venues and facilities are built close to ts venues and facilities are built close to peoplepeople’’s homes and promote extensive public fitness activities. s homes and promote extensive public fitness activities.
We will advance social governance based on We will advance social governance based on collaboration, participationcollaboration, participation,, and common and common gainsgains.. We will work to ensure that our people enjoy peace and contentment in We will work to ensure that our people enjoy peace and contentment in work and life and that there is stability and order in society. work and life and that there is stability and order in society. WWe will develop new e will develop new approaches to improving social governance at the primary level, strengthen approaches to improving social governance at the primary level, strengthen thethe service provision funcservice provision functions of communities, develop a system for tions of communities, develop a system for mobilizingmobilizing all all sectors of society, and enhance primarysectors of society, and enhance primary--level governance capacity. We will level governance capacity. We will furtherfurther improve the social credit system. improve the social credit system.
We will develop social work, and support the healthy development of social
We will develop social work, and support the healthy development of social organorganizations, humanitarian assistance, volunteer services, public welfare and izations, humanitarian assistance, volunteer services, public welfare and charitable initiatives, and other related activities. We will crack down hard on the charitable initiatives, and other related activities. We will crack down hard on the traffickingtrafficking and buying of women and children and protect their lawful rights and and buying of women and children and protect their lawful rights and interests. The sinterests. The system for supporting and caring for senior citizens and people with ystem for supporting and caring for senior citizens and people with disabilities will also be improved. disabilities will also be improved.
W
We will improve the system for handling public complaints, identify and e will improve the system for handling public complaints, identify and
中央党史和文献研究院译
34
defuse social problems, and see that the justified demands of the public are
defuse social problems, and see that the justified demands of the public are prpromptly addressed in accordance with the law. We will attach great importance omptly addressed in accordance with the law. We will attach great importance to pto public psychological and counseling servicesublic psychological and counseling services. Better public legal services and . Better public legal services and legal aid will be provided. legal aid will be provided.
We will
We will enhanceenhance disaster prevention, mitigation and relief capabilitdisaster prevention, mitigation and relief capabilities, as well ies, as well as emergency rescue capacity, better protect against floods, droughts, forest and as emergency rescue capacity, better protect against floods, droughts, forest and grassland fires, geological disasters and earthquakes, and provide quality grassland fires, geological disasters and earthquakes, and provide quality meteorological services. We will tighten supervision over quality and safety across meteorological services. We will tighten supervision over quality and safety across ththe entire food chain. We will implement the responsibility and management e entire food chain. We will implement the responsibility and management systems for workplace safety, carry out a threesystems for workplace safety, carry out a three--year drive to promote workplace year drive to promote workplace safety, and take effective stepsafety, and take effective steps to prevent s to prevent major and serious major and serious accidents.accidents.
We will advance the building
We will advance the building of our national security system and capacity, and of our national security system and capacity, and strengthen cyber security, data security and protection of personal information. We strengthen cyber security, data security and protection of personal information. We will take a full range of steps to maintain law and order, will take a full range of steps to maintain law and order, continuecontinue the ongoing the ongoing efforts to combat organized crime and rootefforts to combat organized crime and root out local criminal gangs, and firmly out local criminal gangs, and firmly prevent and crack down on illegal and criminal activities of all types, so as to reach prevent and crack down on illegal and criminal activities of all types, so as to reach a higher level in building a peaceful China and advancing the rule of lawa higher level in building a peaceful China and advancing the rule of law in in ChinaChina..
Fellow Deputies,
Fellow Deputies,
Facing new developments and tasks, we in government at all levels must fully Facing new developments and tasks, we in government at all levels must fully act on act on thethe guiding principles from the Partyguiding principles from the Party’’s 19th National Congress and the s 19th National Congress and the plenary sessions of the 19th Party Central Committee. We should acquire a deep plenary sessions of the 19th Party Central Committee. We should acquire a deep understanding of the dunderstanding of the decisive significance of theecisive significance of the establishment of establishment of both both Comrade Xi Comrade Xi Jinping’s core position on the Party Central Committee and in the Party as a whole Jinping’s core position on the Party Central Committee and in the Party as a whole and the guiding role of Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese and the guiding role of Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New EraCharacteristics for a New Era, and , and boost ouboost our consciousness of the need to maintain r consciousness of the need to maintain political integrity, think in bigpolitical integrity, think in big--picture terms, follow the leadership core, and keep picture terms, follow the leadership core, and keep in alignment with the central Party leadership. We should stay confident in the in alignment with the central Party leadership. We should stay confident in the path, the theory, the system, and the culture of spath, the theory, the system, and the culture of socialism with Chinese ocialism with Chinese characteristics. We should characteristics. We should firmfirmly uphold Comrade Xi Jinping’s core position on the ly uphold Comrade Xi Jinping’s core position on the Party Central Committee and in the Party as a whole and uphold the Central Party Central Committee and in the Party as a whole and uphold the Central Committee’s authority and its centralized, unified leadershipCommittee’s authority and its centralized, unified leadership.. We should We should cloclosely sely follow the follow the Party Party Central Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping at its core Central Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping at its core in thinking, in thinking, stance, and actionstance, and action..
中央党史和文献研究院译
35
We remain committed to law
We remain committed to law--based government administration, to making based government administration, to making the the affairs of government more transparentaffairs of government more transparent, and to building , and to building a government basea government based on d on the rule of law. the rule of law.
Our government will, in compliance with the law, accept the oversight of
Our government will, in compliance with the law, accept the oversight of peoplepeople’’s congresses and their standing committees at the corresponding level. We s congresses and their standing committees at the corresponding level. We will consciously accept democratic oversight from the CPPCC. And we will readilwill consciously accept democratic oversight from the CPPCC. And we will readily y commit ourselves to public commit ourselves to public oversightoversight and oversight through public opinion. and oversight through public opinion. AuditAudit--based and statisticsbased and statistics--based oversight will also be strengthened. We will based oversight will also be strengthened. We will support trade unions, Communist Youth League organizations, womensupport trade unions, Communist Youth League organizations, women’’s s federations, and other peoplefederations, and other people’’s os organizations in better fulfilling rganizations in better fulfilling theirtheir roles. roles.
We will keep working tirelessly to ensure full and strict Party We will keep working tirelessly to ensure full and strict Party selfself--governancegovernance and do more to improve Party conduct, build integrity and prevent corruption. We and do more to improve Party conduct, build integrity and prevent corruption. We will work harder to build a will work harder to build a governmentgovernment of inteof integrity. What we have gained from grity. What we have gained from the initiatives to study the history of the CPC will be consolidated. Athe initiatives to study the history of the CPC will be consolidated. Alll of us in l of us in government must readily accept the oversight of the law, supervisory bodies and government must readily accept the oversight of the law, supervisory bodies and the people, the people, alwaysalways regard the peopleregard the people’’s interests as our highest concern, and truly s interests as our highest concern, and truly serve as public servants of the people. serve as public servants of the people.
In the face of difficulties and challenges, it is vital that all of us in governments In the face of difficulties and challenges, it is vital that all of us in governments at all levels perform our duties, at all levels perform our duties, work work diligently diligently for the peoplefor the people, and make concert, and make concerted ed efforts to promote development and ensure the public wellbeing. Development efforts to promote development and ensure the public wellbeing. Development remains the top priority for China, and we must fully act on theremains the top priority for China, and we must fully act on the new development new development philosophyphilosophy to pursue highto pursue high--qualityquality development. development.
W
We will continue to steadfastly e will continue to steadfastly implement the ceimplement the central Party leadership’s ntral Party leadership’s eighteight--point decision on improving conductpoint decision on improving conduct and and work work ceaselessly ceaselessly to to oppose oppose pointless pointless formalities, bureaucratism, hedonism and extravagance, with formalities, bureaucratism, hedonism and extravagance, with a particular a particular focus on the first twofocus on the first two problemsproblems.. We will firmly oppose perfunctory attitudeWe will firmly oppose perfunctory attitudes ands and buck passingbuck passing in government, and take strong steps to correct any abuse of power in government, and take strong steps to correct any abuse of power and any simplistic or unmannerly way of conducting work. and any simplistic or unmannerly way of conducting work.
We must a
We must alwayslways keep in mind the peoplekeep in mind the people’’s security and wellbeing. We will s security and wellbeing. We will work to understand the realities, take work to understand the realities, take specific steps, and deliver solid outcomes to specific steps, and deliver solid outcomes to promptly respond to the promptly respond to the people’people’s concerns. And we will take strong measures s concerns. And we will take strong measures against any dereliction of duty owing to disregard for against any dereliction of duty owing to disregard for thethe peoplepeople’’s s legitimatelegitimate rights rights and interests.and interests.
中央党史和文献研究院译
36
We will keep the central and
We will keep the central and local governments fully motivated and respect local governments fully motivated and respect the pioneering spirit of the people. We willthe pioneering spirit of the people. We will avoid a oneavoid a one--sizesize--fitsfits--all approach, all approach, refrain from making local governments take excessive policy stepsrefrain from making local governments take excessive policy steps, and continue , and continue easing the burdens on those working on the groundeasing the burdens on those working on the ground..
We will improve the mechanisms for providing incentives and protections to
We will improve the mechanisms for providing incentives and protections to support officials who readily take support officials who readily take responsibilitresponsibility and ably perform their duties. As y and ably perform their duties. As long as all of us throughout the country are working as one to the best of our long as all of us throughout the country are working as one to the best of our abilities, we will undoubtedly accomplish new achievements in pursuing abilities, we will undoubtedly accomplish new achievements in pursuing development. development.
Fellow Deputies,
Fellow Deputies,
We will continue to practice and imprWe will continue to practice and improve the system of regional ethnic ove the system of regional ethnic autonomy, focus on forging a strong sense of community among the Chinese autonomy, focus on forging a strong sense of community among the Chinese people, promote interactions, exchanges and integration among all ethnic groups, people, promote interactions, exchanges and integration among all ethnic groups, and speed up the and speed up the modernization drive in ethnic minoritymodernization drive in ethnic minority regions. regions.
WWe will adhere to the Partye will adhere to the Party’’s basic policy on religious affairs, follows basic policy on religious affairs, follow the the principle that religions in China must be Chinese in orientationprinciple that religions in China must be Chinese in orientation,, and provide active and provide active guidance to religions so they can adapt themselves to socialist societyguidance to religions so they can adapt themselves to socialist society. .
We will fully implemeWe will fully implement the Partynt the Party’’s policy on overseas Chinese affairs, protect s policy on overseas Chinese affairs, protect the lawful rights and interests of the lawful rights and interests of Chinese nationals residing abroad, returned Chinese nationals residing abroad, returned Chinese, and relatives of overseas Chinese nationals Chinese, and relatives of overseas Chinese nationals residing in China, and residing in China, and encourage all encourage all thethe sons and daughters of thsons and daughters of the Chinese nation, both at home and e Chinese nation, both at home and abroad, to work together in creating new glories for our nation.abroad, to work together in creating new glories for our nation.
Fellow Deputies,
Fellow Deputies,
Last year, we made major strides in strengthening national defense and the
Last year, we made major strides in strengthening national defense and the armed forces, getting off to a good start in this endeavor in armed forces, getting off to a good start in this endeavor in the 14th Fivethe 14th Five--Year Plan Year Plan period. This year, we will fully implement Xi Jinpingperiod. This year, we will fully implement Xi Jinping’’s thinking on strengthening s thinking on strengthening the armed forces and the military strategy for the new era, work toward the the armed forces and the military strategy for the new era, work toward the goals goals for the centenary of the People’s Liberation Armyfor the centenary of the People’s Liberation Army in 2027, and strenin 2027, and strengthen Party gthen Party leadership and Party building in all aspects of the military. We will enhance leadership and Party building in all aspects of the military. We will enhance military training and combat readiness, stay firm and flexible in carrying out military training and combat readiness, stay firm and flexible in carrying out military struggle, and safeguard Chinamilitary struggle, and safeguard China’’s sovereignty, security and development s sovereignty, security and development interestinterests. s.
中央党史和文献研究院译
37
We will move faster to modernize the militaryWe will move faster to modernize the military’’s logistics and asset s logistics and asset management systems, and build a modern weaponry and management systems, and build a modern weaponry and equipmentequipment management management system. We will continue the reform of national defense and the military and step system. We will continue the reform of national defense and the military and step up innovations in defense scup innovations in defense science and technology. ience and technology. WWe will implement the strategy e will implement the strategy of strengthening the military by training competent personnel in the new era, run of strengthening the military by training competent personnel in the new era, run the military in accordance with the law and strict discipline, and promote the military in accordance with the law and strict discipline, and promote highhigh--quality development of the military. We wquality development of the military. We will improve the layout of defense ill improve the layout of defense science, science, technologytechnology and industry.and industry.
We will finish reforming the defense mobilization system and raise public We will finish reforming the defense mobilization system and raise public awareness of national defense. Government at all levels must give strong support awareness of national defense. Government at all levels must give strong support to the development of national dto the development of national defense and the armed forces, and conduct efense and the armed forces, and conduct extensive activities to promote mutual support between civilian sectors and the extensive activities to promote mutual support between civilian sectors and the military, so military, so thatthat the unity between the military and government and between the the unity between the military and government and between the military and the people will remain rock solid.military and the people will remain rock solid.
Fellow
Fellow Deputies,Deputies,
W
We will maintain our firm commitment to the letter and spirit of the policy of e will maintain our firm commitment to the letter and spirit of the policy of One Country, Two Systems, under which the people of Hong Kong administer One Country, Two Systems, under which the people of Hong Kong administer Hong Kong, and the people of Macao Hong Kong, and the people of Macao administeradminister Macao, both with a high degree Macao, both with a high degree of autonomy.of autonomy. We We will ensure that the central government exercises overall will ensure that the central government exercises overall jurisdiction over jurisdiction over the two special the two special administrativeadministrative regions, and firmly uphold the regions, and firmly uphold the principle principle that Hong Kong that Hong Kong and Macao and Macao should be governed by patriotsshould be governed by patriots. We will fully . We will fully support the governments of these two support the governments of these two special administrative regions in exercising special administrative regions in exercising lawlaw--based governance. based governance. WWe will help Hong Kong and Macao respond to Covide will help Hong Kong and Macao respond to Covid--19, 19, develop their economies, and improve the wellbeing of their people, see that these develop their economies, and improve the wellbeing of their people, see that these two regions better integrate themselves into two regions better integrate themselves into thethe coucountryntry’’s overall development, s overall development, and maintain the longand maintain the long--term prosperity and stability of Hong Kong and Macao.term prosperity and stability of Hong Kong and Macao.
W
We remain committed to the major e remain committed to the major principles and policies on work related to principles and policies on work related to TaiwanTaiwan, to the Party, to the Party’’s overall policy for resolving the Taiwan question in ts overall policy for resolving the Taiwan question in the new he new era, and era, and to the oneto the one--China principle and the 1992 CoChina principle and the 1992 Consensusnsensus. . WWe will advancee will advance the the peaceful growth of relations across the Taiwan Straitpeaceful growth of relations across the Taiwan Strait and the and the reunificationreunification of Cof Chhina. ina. WWe firme firmly opposly oppose anye any separatistseparatist activitiesactivities seekingseeking “Taiwan independence”“Taiwan independence” and and firmly oppose foreign interference. All of us, Chinese on both sides of the Taiwan firmly oppose foreign interference. All of us, Chinese on both sides of the Taiwan Strait, should come Strait, should come together together to advance the great and glorious cause of Chinato advance the great and glorious cause of China’’s s
中央党史和文献研究院译
38
rejuvenation.
rejuvenation.
Fellow Deputies,
Fellow Deputies,
China will continue to pursue an inde
China will continue to pursue an independent foreign polpendent foreign policy of peaceicy of peace, stay on , stay on the path of peaceful development, work for a new type of international relations, the path of peaceful development, work for a new type of international relations, and endeavor to and endeavor to buildbuild a human community with a shared future. a human community with a shared future. WWe will pursue e will pursue the Global Development Initiative and the Global Development Initiative and promote promote the the shared valuesshared values of all humaof all humanity. nity. China will always work to safeguard world peace, contribute to global China will always work to safeguard world peace, contribute to global development, and preserve international order. We stand ready to work with all development, and preserve international order. We stand ready to work with all others in the international community to make new and greater contributions to others in the international community to make new and greater contributions to promoting world peace,promoting world peace, stability, development and prosperity.stability, development and prosperity.
Fellow Deputies,
Fellow Deputies,
It has
It has alwaysalways been in the course of meeting challenges that China has advanced been in the course of meeting challenges that China has advanced its development. We the Chinese people have the courage, vision and strength to its development. We the Chinese people have the courage, vision and strength to overcome any obstacle or difficulty. overcome any obstacle or difficulty. WeWe mustmust rally rally moremore closecloselyly around the CPC around the CPC CentCentral Committee with ral Committee with Comrade Comrade Xi Jinping aXi Jinping att itsits corecore, hold high the banner of , hold high the banner of socialism with Chinese characteristics, socialism with Chinese characteristics, and follow the guidance of Xi Jinping and follow the guidance of Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a NewThought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New EraEra. .
W
We will e will meet challenges meet challenges squarely, forge aheadsquarely, forge ahead determinedlydeterminedly, work hard to , work hard to fulfill this yearfulfill this year’’s goals and tasks, set the stage for s goals and tasks, set the stage for the the 2020th National Congress of the th National Congress of the CPC withCPC with concrete actions, and continue working tirelessly to build our country concrete actions, and continue working tirelessly to build our country into a into a great modern socialist country that is prospgreat modern socialist country that is prosperous, strong, democratic, erous, strong, democratic, culturally advancedculturally advanced, harmonious, and beautiful, harmonious, and beautiful, and to , and to realizrealizee the Chinese the Chinese DDream ream of national rejuvenation.of national rejuvenation.